# § 58.1-1007 Documents touching purchase, sale, etc., of cigarettes to be kept for three years, subject to inspection; penalty.

<p>It shall be the duty of every person receiving, storing, selling, handling or transporting cigarettes in any manner whatsoever, to preserve all invoices, books, papers, cancelled checks, or other documents relating to the purchase, sale, exchange, receipt or transportation of all cigarettes for a period of three years. All such invoices, books, papers, cancelled checks or other memoranda and records shall be subject to audit and inspection at all times by any duly authorized representative of the Department, the Office of the Attorney General, or the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control or by a local cigarette tax administrative or enforcement official. Any person who fails or refuses to keep and preserve the records as required in this section shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Any person who, upon request by a duly authorized agent who is entitled to audit and inspect such records, fails or refuses to allow an audit or inspection of records as provided in this section shall have his stamping permit suspended until such time as the audit or inspection is allowed. The Department may impose a penalty of $1,000 for each day that the person fails or refuses to allow an audit or inspection of the records. The penalty shall be assessed and collected by the Department as other taxes are collected.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 58-757.4, 58-757.6; 1960, c. 392, §§ 4, 6; 1984, c. 675; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0754'>754</a>.</p>