# § 13.1-1012 Name.

<p>A. A limited liability company name shall contain the words "limited company" or "limited liability company" or their abbreviations "L.C.," "LC," "L.L.C.," or "LLC."</p><p>B. A limited liability company name shall not contain:</p><p>1. Any word, abbreviation, or combination of characters that states or implies the limited liability company is a corporation, a limited partnership, a registered limited liability partnership, or a protected series of a series limited liability company; or</p><p>2. Any word or phrase the use of which is prohibited by law for such company.</p><p>C. Except as authorized by subsection D, a limited liability company name shall be distinguishable upon the records of the Commission from:</p><p>1. The name of a domestic limited liability company or a foreign limited liability company registered to transact business in the Commonwealth;</p><p>2. A limited liability company name reserved under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1013/'>13.1-1013</a>;</p><p>3. The designated name adopted by a foreign limited liability company because its real name is unavailable for use in the Commonwealth;</p><p>4. The name of any corporation, whether issuing shares or not issuing shares, existing under the laws of the Commonwealth or authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth;</p><p>5. A corporate name reserved or registered under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-631/'>13.1-631</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-632/'>13.1-632</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-830/'>13.1-830</a> or <a href='/vacode/13.1-831/'>13.1-831</a>;</p><p>6. The designated name adopted by a foreign corporation, whether issuing shares or not issuing shares, because its real name is unavailable for use in the Commonwealth;</p><p>7. The name of a domestic business trust or a foreign business trust registered to transact business in the Commonwealth;</p><p>8. A business trust name reserved under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1215/'>13.1-1215</a>;</p><p>9. The designated name adopted by a foreign business trust because its real name is unavailable for use in the Commonwealth;</p><p>10. The name of a domestic limited partnership or a foreign limited partnership registered to transact business in the Commonwealth;</p><p>11. A limited partnership name reserved under § <a href='/vacode/50-73.3/'>50-73.3</a>; and</p><p>12. The designated name adopted by a foreign limited partnership because its real name is unavailable for use in the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. A domestic limited liability company may apply to the Commission for authorization to use a name that is not distinguishable upon its records from one or more of the names described in subsection C. The Commission shall authorize use of the name applied for if the other entity consents to the use in writing and submits an undertaking in form satisfactory to the Commission to change its name to a name that is distinguishable upon the records of the Commission from the name of the applying limited liability company.</p><p>E. The use of assumed names or fictitious names, as provided for in Chapter 5 (§ <a href='/vacode/59.1-69/'>59.1-69</a> et seq.) of Title 59.1, is not affected by this chapter.</p><p>F. The Commission, in determining whether a limited liability company name is distinguishable upon its records from the name of any of the business entities listed in subsection C, shall not consider any word, phrase, abbreviation, or designation required or permitted under this section and § <a href='/vacode/13.1-544.1/'>13.1-544.1</a>, subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-630/'>13.1-630</a>, § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1104/'>13.1-1104</a>, subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/50-73.2/'>50-73.2</a>, and subdivision A 2 of § <a href='/vacode/50-73.78/'>50-73.78</a> to be contained in the name of a business entity formed or organized under the laws of the Commonwealth or authorized or registered to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>1991, c. 168; 1992, c. 574; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0168'>168</a>; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0340'>340</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0592'>592</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0379'>379</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0063'>63</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0636'>636</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>