# ยง 45.2-1031  State Reclamation Program.

<p>A. The Commonwealth's program for the reclamation of land and water adversely affected by past mining shall include the State Reclamation Plan, the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund created pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-1032/'>45.2-1032</a>, and annual reclamation projects, as provided for in this article.</p><p>B. The Director is authorized to develop and submit to the Secretary for approval a State Reclamation Plan in accordance with the provisions of Title IV of the federal act and of this article. The plan shall generally identify the areas to be reclaimed, the purposes for which the reclamation is proposed, the relationship of the lands to be reclaimed and the proposed reclamation to surrounding areas, the specific criteria for ranking and identifying projects to be funded, and the programmatic capability of the Division to perform such work, and shall include such regulations, policies, and procedures as may be necessary to establish and implement the plan and annual reclamation projects and to carry out the provisions of this article. The Director may from time to time develop and submit to the Secretary amendments and revisions to the plan consistent with this article.</p><p>C. The Director may:</p><p>1. Prepare and submit to the Secretary annual applications for the support of the State Reclamation Program and implementation of specific reclamation projects;</p><p>2. Enter into agreements with the Secretary for the emergency restoration, reclamation, abatement, control, or prevention of the adverse effects of coal mining practices;</p><p>3. Administer the State Reclamation Plan and annual reclamation projects and receive and administer grants from the Secretary therefor; and</p><p>4. Prepare and submit such information and reports as the Secretary requests.</p><p>D. The Director and the Department, in carrying out the functions of preparing and revising the State Reclamation Plan and developing annual reclamation projects, shall provide appropriate opportunities for public involvement.</p><p>1979, c. 290, ยง 45.1-260; 1984, c. 590; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>