# § 16.1-112 All papers transmitted to appellate court; further proceedings.

<p>The judge or clerk of any court from which an appeal is taken under this article shall promptly transmit to the clerk of the appellate court the case papers, which shall include the original warrant or warrants or other notices or pleadings with the judgment endorsed thereon, together with all pleadings, exhibits, and other papers filed in the trial of the case. The required bond, and, if applicable, the money deposited to secure such bond and the writ tax and costs paid pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/16.1-107/'>16.1-107</a> shall also be submitted, along with the fees for service of process of the notice of appeal in the circuit court. Upon receipt of the foregoing by the clerk of the appellate court, the case shall then be docketed, except that an appeal from an order of protection issued pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-152.10/'>19.2-152.10</a> shall be assigned a case number within two business days upon receipt of such appeal.</p><p>When such case has been docketed, the clerk of such appellate court shall by writing to be served, as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/8.01-288/'>8.01-288</a>, <a href='/vacode/8.01-293/'>8.01-293</a>, <a href='/vacode/8.01-296/'>8.01-296</a>, and <a href='/vacode/8.01-325/'>8.01-325</a>, or by certified mail, with certified delivery receipt requested, notify the appellee, or by regular mail to his attorney, that such an appeal has been docketed in his office, provided that upon affidavit by the appellant or his agent in conformity with § <a href='/vacode/8.01-316/'>8.01-316</a> being filed with the clerk, the clerk shall post such notice at the front door of his courtroom and shall mail a copy thereof to the appellee at his last known address or place of abode or to his attorney, and he shall file a certificate of such posting and mailing with the papers in the case. No such appeal shall be heard unless it appears that the appellee or his attorney has had such notice, or that such certificate has been filed, 10 days before the date fixed for trial, or has in person or by attorney waived such notice.</p><p>If a party files an appeal of a district court order of protection entered pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-152.10/'>19.2-152.10</a>, such notice of appeal shall be on a form prescribed by the Office of the Executive Secretary. The district court clerk shall contact the appellate court to determine whether the hearing on the appeal shall be set by the appellate court on (i) a date scheduled by the district court clerk with the court, (ii) on the next docket call date, or (iii) a date set for district court appeals. Once the hearing date is set and the appeal documents have been transmitted, the appellate court shall have the parties served with notice of the appeal stating the date and time of the hearing in accordance with subdivision 1 of § <a href='/vacode/8.01-296/'>8.01-296</a>. No such hearing on the appeal shall be heard in the appellate court unless the appellee has been so served with such notice or notice has been waived by the non-moving party.</p><p>1956, c. 555; 1958, c. 211; 1972, c. 585; 1984, c. 108; 1988, c. 698; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0366'>366</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0612'>612</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0032'>32</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0134'>134</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0718'>718</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0905'>905</a>.</p>