# ยง 59.1-207.34 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Adjustment program" means any extended policy program under which a manufacturer undertakes to pay for all or any part of the cost of repairing, or to reimburse purchasers for all or any part of the cost of repairing, any condition that may substantially affect vehicle durability, reliability or performance, other than service provided under a safety or emission-related recall program. This term shall not include ad hoc adjustments made by a manufacturer on a case-by-case basis.</p><p>"Consumer" means the purchaser, other than for purposes of resale, or the lessee of a motor vehicle and shall also include any person to whom such motor vehicle is transferred and any other person entitled by the terms of adjustment program to enforce its obligations.</p><p>"Dealer" means any motor vehicle dealer as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1500/'>46.2-1500</a>.</p><p>"Division" means the Division of Consumer Counsel in the Department of Law.</p><p>"Manufacturer" means any person, whether resident or nonresident, who manufactures, assembles, or imports motor vehicles for sale or distribution in this Commonwealth.</p><p>"Motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-100/'>46.2-100</a>, but shall not include any motorcycle or motor home.</p><p>1991, c. 300; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>