# ยง 30-13 Other duties of Clerk of House of Delegates; publication of proposed amendments to Constitution.

<p>In addition to such duties as may be prescribed by the rules of the House of Delegates, the Clerk of the House of Delegates shall at the end of the session of the General Assembly prepare a well-arranged index to the journal of the House and the documents printed during the session by order of the House. He shall have published, with the acts and joint resolutions proposing amendments to the Constitution: joint resolutions providing for studies for legislation of each session of the General Assembly; the unadjusted United States decennial census counts for the Commonwealth's counties, cities, and towns; and a carefully prepared and well-arranged index of the acts and joint resolutions.</p><p>The Clerk of the House of Delegates shall have published all proposed amendments to the Constitution for distribution from his office and to the clerk of the circuit court of each county and city two copies of the proposed amendments, one of which shall be posted at the front door of the courthouse and the other shall be made available for public inspection. Every clerk of the circuit court shall complete the posting required not later than three months prior to the next ensuing general election of members of the House of Delegates and shall certify such posting to the Clerk of the House of Delegates. The Clerk of the House of Delegates shall report to the General Assembly at its next regular session the action taken by him under this section, including the costs incurred in the printing and distribution of the amendments. The report shall be published in the Journal of the House of Delegates.</p><p>Code 1919, ยง 306; 1920, p. 396; 1927, p. 211; 1940, p. 471; 1946, p. 171; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 84; 1969, Ex. Sess., c. 13; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 71; 1976, c. 170; 1993, c. 399; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0623'>623</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0839'>839</a>.</p>