# § 2.2-2235.1 Board of directors; members and officers; Chief Executive Officer.

<p>A. The Authority shall be governed by a board of directors (the Board) consisting of the Secretary of Commerce and Trade, the Secretary of Finance, the Chairman of the Virginia Growth and Opportunity Board, the Executive Director of the Virginia Port Authority, and the Staff Directors of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, serving as ex officio, voting members, and 11 voting members to be appointed as follows:</p><p>1. Seven nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor; and</p><p>2. Four nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Joint Rules Committee.</p><p>B. 1. Each of the nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor and the Joint Rules Committee shall possess expertise in at least one of the following areas: marketing; international commerce; finance or grant administration; state, regional, or local economic development; measuring the effectiveness of incentive programs; law; information technology; transportation; workforce development; manufacturing; biotechnology; cybersecurity; defense; energy; or any other industry identified in the comprehensive economic development policy developed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-205/'>2.2-205</a>.</p><p>2. Each of the nine regions defined by the Virginia Growth and Opportunity Board pursuant to subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2486/'>2.2-2486</a> shall be represented by at least one member of the Board. In determining such geographical representation, ex officio members of the Board may be considered to represent the region in which they serve in their official capacity.</p><p>C. After the initial staggering of terms, members shall serve terms of four years, except that ex officio members of the Board shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. No member shall be eligible to serve more than two terms; however, after the expiration of the term of a member appointed to serve three years or less, two additional terms may be served if appointed thereto. Any appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. A person appointed to fill a vacancy may be appointed to serve two additional terms. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. Members of the Board shall receive such compensation for the performance of their duties as provided in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a>. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Authority.</p><p>E. The Board shall be deemed a supervisory board within the meaning of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2100/'>2.2-2100</a>.</p><p>F. The Board shall elect a chairman from the nonlegislative citizen members of the Board, and the Secretary of Commerce and Trade shall serve as vice-chairman. The Board shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, who need not be members of the Board, and may also elect other subordinate officers, who need not be members of the Board. The Chairman and the Vice-chairman, with approval by the Board, shall create an executive committee of the Board. The Board may also form advisory committees, which may include representatives who are not members of the Board, to undertake more extensive study and discussion of the issues before the Board.</p><p>G. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the Authority's business, and no vacancy in the membership shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise the rights and perform all duties of the Authority. The meetings of the Board shall be held at least quarterly or at the call of the chairman.</p><p>H. The Board shall appoint the chief executive officer of the Authority, who shall not be a member of the Board, whose title shall be President and Chief Executive Officer and may be referred to as the President or as the Chief Executive Officer and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and carry out such powers and duties conferred upon him by the Board.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0804'>804</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0824'>824</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0829'>829</a>.</p>