# § 30-355 Virginia Conflict of Interest and Ethics Advisory Council; membership; terms; quorum; expenses.

<p>A. The Virginia Conflict of Interest and Ethics Advisory Council (the Council) is hereby created as an advisory council in the legislative branch to encourage and facilitate compliance with the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3100/'>2.2-3100</a> et seq.) and the General Assembly Conflicts of Interests Act (§ <a href='/vacode/30-100/'>30-100</a> et seq.)(hereafter the Acts) and the lobbying laws in Article 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-418/'>2.2-418</a> et seq.) of Chapter 4 of Title 2.2 (hereafter Article 3).</p><p>B. The Council shall consist of nine members as follows: three members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates, two of whom shall be members of the House of Delegates and one of whom shall be a former judge of a court of record; three members appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, two of whom shall be members of the Senate and one of whom shall be a former judge of a court of record; and three members appointed by the Governor, one of whom shall be a current or former executive branch employee, one of whom shall be appointed from a list of three nominees submitted by the Virginia Association of Counties, and one of whom shall be appointed from a list of three nominees submitted by the Virginia Municipal League. In the appointment to the Council of members of the House of Delegates made by the Speaker and members of the Senate made by the Senate Committee on Rules, equal representation shall be given to each of the political parties having the highest and next highest number of members elected to their respective body. All members of the Council are subject to confirmation by the General Assembly by a majority vote in each house of (i) the members present of the majority party and (ii) the members present of the minority party.</p><p>C. All appointments following the initial staggering of terms shall be for terms of four years, except that appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms in the same manner as the original appointment. No nonlegislative citizen member shall be eligible to serve for more than two successive four-year terms. However, after the expiration of a term of three years or less, or after the expiration of the remainder of a term to which appointed to fill a vacancy, two additional terms may be served by such member if appointed thereto. Legislative members and other state government officials shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Legislative members may be reappointed for successive terms.</p><p>D. The members of the Council shall elect from among their membership a chairman and a vice-chairman for two-year terms. The chairman and vice-chairman may not succeed themselves to the same position. The Council shall hold meetings upon the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request. A majority of the Council appointed shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>E. Members of the Council shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a>, <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>, and <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>, as appropriate. Funding for expenses of the members shall be provided from existing appropriations to the Council.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0792'>792</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0804'>804</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0763'>763</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0777'>777</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0323'>323</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0327'>327</a>.</p>