# § 55.1-1991 Contents of resale certificate; delivery.

<p>A. A resale certificate shall include the following:</p><p>1. An appropriate statement pursuant to subsection H of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1966/'>55.1-1966</a>, which need not be notarized, and, if applicable, an appropriate statement pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1969/'>55.1-1969</a>;</p><p>2. A statement of any expenditure of funds approved by the unit owners' association or the executive board that requires an assessment in addition to the regular assessment during the current or the immediately succeeding fiscal year;</p><p>3. A statement, including the amount, of all assessments and any other fees or charges currently imposed by the unit owners' association, together with any known post-closing fee charged by the common interest community manager, if any, and associated with the purchase, disposition, and maintenance of the condominium unit and the use of the common elements, and the status of the account;</p><p>4. A statement of whether there is any other entity or facility to which the unit owner may be liable for fees or other charges;</p><p>5. The current reserve study report or a summary of such report and a statement of the status and amount of any reserve or replacement fund and any portion of the fund designated for any specified project by the executive board;</p><p>6. A copy of the unit owners' association's current budget or a summary of such budget prepared by the unit owners' association and a copy of the statement of its financial position (balance sheet) for the last fiscal year for which a statement is available, including a statement of the balance due of any outstanding loans of the unit owners' association;</p><p>7. A statement of the nature and status of any pending actions or unpaid judgments to which the unit owners' association is a party that either could or would have a material impact on the unit owners' association or the unit owners or that relates to the unit being purchased;</p><p>8. A statement setting forth what insurance coverage is provided for all unit owners by the unit owners' association, including the fidelity bond maintained by the unit owners' association, and what additional insurance coverage would normally be secured by each individual unit owner;</p><p>9. A statement that any improvements or alterations made to the unit, or the limited common elements assigned thereto, are or are not in violation of the condominium instruments;</p><p>10. A copy of the current bylaws, rules and regulations, and architectural guidelines adopted by the unit owners' association and the amendments to any such documents;</p><p>11. A statement of whether any portion of the condominium is located within a development subject to the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.);</p><p>12. A copy of the notice given to the unit owner by the unit owners' association of any current or pending rule or architectural violation;</p><p>13. A copy of any approved minutes of the executive board and unit owners' association meetings for the six calendar months preceding the request for the resale certificate;</p><p>14. Certification that the unit owners' association has filed with the Common Interest Community Board the annual report required by § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1980/'>55.1-1980</a>, the filing number assigned by the Common Interest Community Board, and the expiration date of such filing;</p><p>15. A statement of any limitation on the number of persons who may occupy a unit as a dwelling;</p><p>16. A statement setting forth any restrictions, limitation, or prohibition on the right of a unit owner to display the flag of the United States, including reasonable restrictions as to the size, time, place, and manner of placement or display of such flag;</p><p>17. A statement setting forth any restriction, limitation, or prohibition on the right of a unit owner to install or use solar energy collection devices on the unit owner's property;</p><p>18. A statement indicating any known project approvals currently in effect issued by secondary mortgage market agencies; and</p><p>19. A copy of the fully completed form developed by the Common Interest Community Board pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2350/'>54.1-2350</a>.</p><p>B. Failure to receive a resale certificate shall not excuse any failure to comply with the provisions of the condominium instruments, articles of incorporation, or rules or regulations.</p><p>C. The resale certificate shall be delivered in accordance with the written request and instructions of the seller or the seller's authorized agent, including whether the resale certificate shall be delivered electronically or in hard copy, at the option of the seller or the seller's authorized agent, and shall specify the complete contact information for the parties to whom the resale certificate shall be delivered. Within 14 days after receipt of a written request and instructions by a seller or the seller's authorized agent, the association, the association's managing agent, or any third party preparing a resale certificate on behalf of a unit owners' association shall deliver the resale certificate as directed in the written request. The resale certificate shall not, in and of itself, be deemed a security within the meaning of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-501/'>13.1-501</a>.</p><p>D. The seller or the seller's authorized agent may request that the resale certificate be provided in hard copy or in electronic form. A unit owners' association or common interest community manager may provide the resale certificate electronically; however, the seller or the seller's authorized agent shall have the right to request that the resale certificate be provided in hard copy. The seller or the seller's authorized agent shall continue to have the right to request a hard copy of the resale certificate in person at the principal place of business of the unit owners' association. If the seller or the seller's authorized agent requests that the resale certificate be provided in electronic format, neither the unit owners' association nor its common interest community manager may require the seller or the seller's authorized agent to pay any fees to use the provider's electronic network or system. The resale certificate shall not be delivered in hard copy if the requester has requested delivery of such resale certificate electronically. If the resale certificate is provided electronically by a website link, the preparer shall not cause the website link to expire within the subsequent 90-day period. The preparer shall not charge another fee during the subsequent 12-month period, except that the preparer may charge an update fee for a financial update or for an inspection as provided in § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1992/'>55.1-1992</a>. If the seller or the seller's authorized agent asks that the resale certificate be provided in electronic format, the seller or the seller's authorized agent may request that an electronic copy be provided to each of the following named in the request: the seller, the seller's authorized agent, the purchaser, the purchaser's authorized agent, and not more than one other person designated by the requester. If so requested, the unit owners' association or its common interest community manager may require the seller or the seller's authorized agent to pay the fee specified in § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1992/'>55.1-1992</a>. Regardless of whether the resale certificate is delivered in paper form or electronically, the preparer of the resale certificate shall provide such resale certificate directly to the persons designated by the requester to the addresses or, if applicable, the email addresses provided by the requester.</p><p>E. Subject to the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1972/'>55.1-1972</a>, but notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the provisions and requirements of this section shall apply to any such resale of a condominium unit created under the provisions of the Horizontal Property Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2000/'>55.1-2000</a> et seq.).</p><p>F. Unless otherwise provided in the ratified real estate contract or other writing, delivery to the purchaser's authorized agent shall require delivery to such agent and not to a person other than such agent. Delivery of the resale certificate may be made by the unit owner or the seller's authorized agent.</p><p>G. If the unit is governed by more than one association, the purchaser's right of cancellation may be exercised within the required time frames following delivery of the last resale certificate or disclosure packet.</p><p>1974, c. 416, § 55-79.97; 1975, c. 415; 1978, cc. 234, 290; 1983, c. 60; 1984, cc. 29, 103; 1990, c. 662; 1991, c. 497; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0172'>172</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0222'>222</a>; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0032'>32</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0454'>454</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0463'>463</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0263'>263</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0556'>556</a>; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0459'>459</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0509'>509</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0415'>415</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0696'>696</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0854'>854</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0334'>334</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0357'>357</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0492'>492</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0277'>277</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0471'>471</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0393'>393</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0406'>406</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0070'>70</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0065'>65</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0066'>66</a>.</p>