# ยง 45.2-932  Misfires.

<p>A. Every misfire shall be reported promptly to the mine foreman, and no other work shall be performed in the blasting area until the hazard has been corrected. A waiting period of at least 15 minutes is required before anyone is allowed to any misfired hole. If explosives are suspected of burning in a hole, every person affected shall move to a safe location for one hour or until the danger has passed, whichever time is longer. When such failure involves an electronic detonator, the blasting cable shall be disconnected from the source of power and the battery ends short-circuited before any electrical connection is examined.</p><p>B. Explosives shall be removed by (i) firing a separate charge at least two feet away from, and parallel to, the misfired charge; (ii) washing the stemming and the charge from the borehole with water; or (iii) inserting and firing a new primer after the stemming has been washed out.</p><p>C. A careful search of the blasting area and, if necessary, of the coal after it reaches the tipple shall be made after blasting a misfired hole to recover any undetonated explosive.</p><p>D. The handling of a misfired shot shall occur under the direct supervision of the foreman or an authorized person designated by him.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-53.7; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-50; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.285; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256'>256</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>