# § 10.1-1443 Draft certification of site approval.

<p>A. Within thirty days after receipt of the governing body's report or as otherwise provided in subsection F of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1441/'>10.1-1441</a>, the Board shall issue or deny a draft certification of site approval.</p><p>When application is made pursuant to subsection H of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1441/'>10.1-1441</a>, the Board shall issue or deny draft certification of site approval within ninety days after receipt of the completed application.</p><p>B. The Board may deny the application for certification of site approval if it finds that the applicant has failed or refused to negotiate in good faith with the governing body for the purpose of attempting to develop a siting agreement.</p><p>C. The draft certification of site approval shall specify the terms, conditions and requirements that the Board deems necessary to protect health, safety, welfare, the environment and natural resources.</p><p>D. Copies of the draft certification of site approval, together with notice of the date, time and place of public hearing required under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1444/'>10.1-1444</a>, shall be delivered by the Board to the governing body of each host community, and to persons owning property adjoining the site for the proposed facility. At least one copy of the draft certification shall be available at a convenient location in the host community for inspection and copying during normal business hours.</p><p>1986, c. 492, § 10-299; 1988, c. 891.</p>