# ยง 22.1-349.1 Definitions; objectives.

<p>A. As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"At-risk student" means a student having a physical, emotional, intellectual, socioeconomic, or cultural risk factor, as defined in Board criteria, that research indicates may negatively influence educational success.</p><p>"College partnership laboratory school" means a public, nonsectarian, nonreligious school in the Commonwealth established by a public institution of higher education or private institution of higher education that operates a teacher education program approved by the Board.</p><p>"Governing board" means the board of a college partnership laboratory school that is responsible for creating, managing, and operating the college partnership laboratory school and whose members have been selected by the institution of higher education that establishes the college partnership laboratory school. The governing board shall be under the control of the institution of higher education that establishes the college partnership laboratory school.</p><p>B. College partnership laboratory schools may be established as provided in this chapter to (i) stimulate the development of innovative programs for preschool through grade 12 students; (ii) provide opportunities for innovative instruction and assessment; (iii) provide teachers with a vehicle for establishing schools with alternative innovative instruction and school scheduling, management, and structure; (iv) encourage the use of performance-based educational programs; (v) establish high standards for both teachers and administrators; (vi) encourage greater collaboration between education providers from preschool to the postsecondary level; and (vii) develop models for replication in other public schools.</p><p>2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>, ยง 23-299; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0176'>176</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0580'>580</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>