# ยง 58.1-2299.2 Certificates of registration; issuance; civil penalty.

<p>A. Every person desiring to engage in the business of a distributor and to sell fuel to a retail dealer for retail sale within any county or city that is a member of (i) any transportation district in which a rapid heavy rail commuter mass transportation system operating on an exclusive right-of-way and a bus commuter mass transportation system are owned, operated, or controlled by an agency or commission as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-1901/'>33.2-1901</a> or (ii) any transportation district that is subject to subsection C of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-1915/'>33.2-1915</a> and that is contiguous to the Northern Virginia Transportation District shall file an application for a certificate of registration with the Commissioner for collection and payment of the tax imposed pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>B. The application for certificate of registration shall be on a form prescribed by the Commissioner and shall set forth the name under which the applicant intends to transact the business for which registration is required under subsection A, the principal location of the place of business, and such other information as the Commissioner may require.</p><p>Each applicant shall sign the application as owner of the business. If the business is owned by an association, partnership, or corporation, the application shall be signed by a member, partner, executive officer, or other person specifically authorized by the association, partnership, or corporation to sign.</p><p>C. Upon approval of the application by the Commissioner, a certificate of registration shall be issued. The certificate is not assignable but shall be valid only for the person in whose name it is issued.</p><p>D. If the holder of a certificate of registration issued under this section ceases to conduct his business in the Commonwealth at the principal place of business designated in the certificate, the certificate shall automatically expire. The holder shall notify the Commissioner, in writing, within 30 days after he has ceased to conduct the business. If the holder of the certificate desires to continue in the business for which he was registered but at a different location, he shall so inform the Commissioner, in writing, at least 30 days prior to the contemplated relocation. The Commissioner shall then issue an amended certificate designating the new principal place of business. The amended certificate shall become effective on the date that the certificate for the previous place of business expires. There shall be no charge for obtaining an amended certificate.</p><p>E. The holder of the certificate of registration issued under this chapter who discontinues in the Commonwealth the business for which the certificate was issued, whether by transferring his business to another person, by selling out his business or stock of goods, or by quitting the business, shall notify the Commissioner in writing within 15 days of such discontinuance and shall surrender the certificate to the Commissioner. The notice shall state the effective date of the discontinuance and, if the certificate holder has transferred the business or otherwise relinquished control to another person by sale or otherwise, the date of the sale or transfer and the name and address of the person to whom the business is transferred or relinquished. The notice shall also include any other information required by the Commissioner.</p><p>F. Whenever a person fails to comply with any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation relating thereto, the Commissioner, after giving such person 10 days' notice in writing, may revoke or suspend the certificate of registration held by such person. The notice may be personally served or served by registered mail directed to the last known address of such person.</p><p>G. Any person required to obtain a certificate of registration under this chapter who engages in business in the Commonwealth without obtaining such certificate, or after such certificate has been suspended or revoked, and each officer of any corporation which so engages in business, shall be subject to a civil penalty. The amount of the civil penalty assessed against a person for his (i) first violation shall be $5,000 and (ii) second and subsequent violations shall be $10,000. Each day's continuance in business in violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0217'>217</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0225'>225</a>.</p>