# ยง 58.1-344.4 Voluntary contributions of refunds into Virginia College Savings Plan accounts.

<p>A. If an individual is entitled to an income tax refund for the taxable year, that individual may designate on his Virginia individual income tax return a contribution to one or more Virginia College Savings Plan accounts established under Chapter 7 (ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-700/'>23.1-700</a> et seq.) of Title 23.1, in the amount of the entire individual income tax refund or a portion thereof.</p><p>B. 1. The Department of Taxation shall send each contribution made pursuant to subsection A to the Virginia College Savings Plan with the following information:</p><p>a. The amount of the individual income tax refund or that portion of the refund that the individual has chosen to contribute;</p><p>b. The taxpayer's name, Social Security number or taxpayer identification number, address, and telephone number; and</p><p>c. The Virginia College Savings Plan account number or numbers into which the contributions will be deposited.</p><p>2. If a contribution to a Virginia College Savings Plan account is designated in an individual income tax return filed jointly by married individuals, the Department of Taxation shall send the information described in subdivision 1 for both spouses to the Virginia College Savings Plan.</p><p>C. 1. If the taxpayer owns a single Virginia College Savings Plan account, the Virginia College Savings Plan shall deposit the contribution made pursuant to subsection A into that account.</p><p>2. If the taxpayer owns more than one Virginia College Savings Plan account, the Virginia College Savings Plan shall allocate the contribution made pursuant to subsection A between or among the accounts in equal amounts, or as otherwise designated by the taxpayer.</p><p>3. If the taxpayer does not own an existing Virginia College Savings Plan account and does not wish to open an account, contributions made pursuant to subsection A shall be returned to the taxpayer by the Virginia College Savings Plan.</p><p>D. For the purpose of determining interest on an overpayment or refund under ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-1833/'>58.1-1833</a>, no interest shall accrue after the Department of Taxation sends the contribution to the Virginia College Savings Plan.</p><p>E. Any taxpayer designating that a refund be contributed to a Virginia College Savings Plan account shall, by making such designation, be deemed to authorize the Department of Taxation to provide all necessary information, including the information specified in subdivision B 1, to the Virginia College Savings Plan.</p><p>2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0402'>402</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0900'>900</a>.</p>