# ยง 33.2-1904 Northern Virginia Transportation District and Commission.

<p>A. There is hereby created the Northern Virginia Transportation District (the District), comprising the Counties of Arlington, Fairfax, and Loudoun; the Cities of Alexandria, Falls Church, and Fairfax; and such other county or city contiguous to the District that agrees to join the District.</p><p>B. There is hereby established the Northern Virginia Transportation Commission (the Commission) as a transportation commission pursuant to this chapter. The Commission shall consist of five nonlegislative citizen members from Fairfax County, three nonlegislative citizen members from Arlington County, two nonlegislative citizen members from Loudoun County, two nonlegislative citizen members from the City of Alexandria, one nonlegislative member from the City of Falls Church, one nonlegislative citizen member from the City of Fairfax, and the Chairman of the Commonwealth Transportation Board or his designee to serve ex officio with voting privileges. If a county or city contiguous to the District agrees to join the District, such locality shall appoint one nonlegislative citizen member to the Commission. Members from the counties and cities shall be appointed from their respective governing bodies. The Commission shall also include four members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates who may be members of the House of Delegates and two members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules. All legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Members may be reappointed for successive terms. All members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth. Except for the Chairman of the Commonwealth Transportation Board or his designee, all members of the Commission shall be residents of the localities composing the District. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>, ยง 15.1-4503.1; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0117'>117</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0374'>374</a>.</p>