# ยง 50-73.88 Formation of partnership.

<p>A. Except as otherwise provided in subsection B, the association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners a business for profit forms a partnership, whether or not the persons intend to form a partnership.</p><p>B. An association formed under a statute other than this chapter, a predecessor statute, or a comparable statute of another jurisdiction is not a partnership under this chapter.</p><p>C. In determining whether a partnership is formed, the following rules apply:</p><p>1. Joint tenancy, tenancy in common, tenancy by the entireties, joint property, common property, or part ownership does not by itself establish a partnership, even if the co-owners share profits made by the use of the property.</p><p>2. The sharing of gross returns does not by itself establish a partnership, even if the persons sharing them have a joint or common right or interest in property from which the returns are derived.</p><p>3. A person who receives a share of the profits of a business is presumed to be a partner in the business, unless the profits were received in payment:</p><p>a. Of a debt by installments or otherwise;</p><p>b. For services as an independent contractor or of wages or other compensation to an employee;</p><p>c. Of rent;</p><p>d. Of an annuity or other retirement benefit to a beneficiary, representative, or designee of a deceased or retired partner;</p><p>e. Of interest or other charge on a loan, even if the amount of payment varies with the profits of the business, including a direct or indirect present or future ownership of the collateral, or rights to income, proceeds, or increase in value derived from the collateral; or</p><p>f. For the sale of the goodwill of a business or other property by installments or otherwise.</p><p>D. Each person to be admitted as a partner to a partnership formed under subsection A may be admitted as a partner and may receive a partnership interest in the partnership without making a contribution or being obligated to make a contribution to the partnership. Each person to be admitted as a partner to a partnership formed under subsection A may be admitted as a partner without acquiring a transferable interest in the partnership. Nothing contained in this subsection shall affect a partner's liability under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/50-73.96/'>50-73.96</a>.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0292'>292</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0616'>616</a>.</p>