# § 32.1-229.1 Inspections of X-ray machines required; Radiation Inspection Reports; fees; qualification of inspectors.

<p>A. All X-ray machines shall be registered with the Department.</p><p>B. Every owner or operator of an X-ray machine shall request an initial inspection by a private inspector or a Department inspector no later than 30 days after the installation of the equipment.</p><p>Inspections shall be performed periodically on a schedule prescribed by the Board. The Department may also require random, unannounced, follow-up inspections of machines that were inspected by private inspectors in order to maintain quality control. In the event of changes in or installations of new equipment during the last 90 days of a period for which an inspection has been made, no interim inspection shall be required. In addition, the Department may require the inspection and certification of other machines emitting radiation or utilizing radiation for patients, consumers, workers, or the general public.</p><p>Inspections shall be performed by Department personnel or by private inspectors only. Inspections conducted by private inspectors shall be conducted in conformance with the regulations of the Board and reports on these inspections shall be filed by the registrant with the Department on forms prescribed by the Department. Results of all inspections shall be reviewed by the Department.</p><p>C. The Department shall issue a certificate for a diagnostic or therapeutic X-ray machine, or X-ray machine not used in the healing arts, when the results of the inspection indicate the machine meets the Board's standards. If the machine does not meet the Board's standards, the certification may be denied. If the certification is denied, the machine shall not be used for treatment, diagnosis, evaluation of patients, whether human or animal, or any other use until the standards of the Board have been met. A copy of the certificate shall be displayed by the registrant in a conspicuous place in close proximity to the X-ray machine.</p><p>D. The Board shall, in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.), promulgate such regulations as the Board deems necessary to protect the health and safety of health care workers, patients, and the general public, including but not limited to:</p><p>1. Fee schedules for registration of X-ray machines;</p><p>2. Schedule for inspections of X-ray machines;</p><p>3. Fee schedules for inspections of X-ray machines by Department personnel; however, no fee shall be charged for inspections initiated by the Department;</p><p>4. Standards for certification of X-ray machines; and</p><p>5. Qualifications for private inspectors of X-ray machines required for inclusion on a list of qualified inspectors of X-ray machines published pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-228.1/'>32.1-228.1</a>, a requirement for annual registration as a private inspector of X-ray machines for inclusion on such list, and a fee not to exceed $150.00 for such registration.</p><p>E. The provisions of this section and of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-229/'>32.1-229</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-229.2/'>32.1-229.2</a> relating to X-ray machines and machines emitting or utilizing radiation shall not apply to devices purchased or used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.</p><p>1987, c. 666; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0041'>41</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0466'>466</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0685'>685</a>.</p>