# ยง 30-34.15 Submission of reports and executive summaries to the legislative branch.

<p>A. Any report required or requested by law or resolution to be submitted to the General Assembly shall be submitted to the Division of Legislative Automated Systems in a written or electronic format as provided in the procedures for the processing of legislative documents. Such submission shall satisfy the requirement for communication to the General Assembly.</p><p>B. Any report required or requested by law or resolution to be submitted to any committee, subcommittee, commission, agency, or other body within the legislative branch or to the chairman or agency head of such entity shall also be submitted to the Division of Legislative Automated Systems in a written or electronic format as provided in the procedures for the processing of legislative documents and reports.</p><p>C. The reports submitted to the Division of Legislative Automated Systems shall include an executive summary. The Division shall post the executive summary and the report on the website of the General Assembly and develop a notification process to inform interested persons of such postings. Any requirement for a separate executive summary may be satisfied by the submission of a report in a written or electronic format with an executive summary.</p><p>D. The Director of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems and the publishing authority may enter into agreements to provide equivalent access to the report or the information contained in the report and such access shall satisfy the submission requirement of this section.</p><p>E. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the release of information otherwise held confidential by law.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0941'>941</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0650'>650</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0633'>633</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0434'>434</a>.</p>