# § 33.2-715 Action of commissioners; report.

<p>The commissioners shall meet on the lands of the proprietors and tenants that are named in the order of the local governing body at a specified place and day, of which notice shall be given by the sheriff to such proprietors and tenants or their agents. Notice need not be given to any person present at the time the order is made. Any one or more of the commissioners attending on the land may adjourn, from time to time, until their business is finished. The commissioners, in the discharge of their duties, shall comply in all respects with the provisions of Chapter 2 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/25.1-200/'>25.1-200</a> et seq.) of Title 25.1 so far as applicable. They shall promptly make their report as required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/25.1-232/'>25.1-232</a> to the local governing body and, unless good cause is shown against the report, it shall be confirmed. If, however, good cause is shown against the report or the commissioners report their disagreement or fail to report within a reasonable time, the local governing body may appoint other commissioners to ascertain the compensation and damages. When any report is confirmed, the local governing body shall establish or alter the highway or bridge with or without gates, as it may seem proper, and provide for the payment of the compensation and damages allowed.</p><p>Code 1950, § 33-151; 1964, c. 565; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-238; 1991, c. 520; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0940'>940</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>