# § 55.1-318 Credit line deed of trust defined; relative priority of credit line deed of trust and other instruments of judgment.

<p>A. For the purpose of this section:</p><p>"Beneficiary" means the noteholder, lender, or other party or parties identified in the credit line deed of trust as secured thereby. In the case of a credit line deed of trust that identifies a party acting as agent for all of the lenders or parties secured by a credit line deed of trust, such agent shall be the beneficiary for purposes of this section.</p><p>"Credit line deed of trust" means any deed of trust, mortgage, bond, or other instrument entered into after July 1, 1982, in which title to real property located in the Commonwealth is conveyed, transferred, encumbered, or pledged to secure payment of money, including advances or other extensions of credit to be made in the future.</p><p>B. A credit line deed of trust shall set forth on the front page, either in capital letters or in language underscored, the words "THIS IS A CREDIT LINE DEED OF TRUST." Such phrase shall convey notice to all parties that advances or other extensions of credit are to be made or are contemplated to be made from time to time against the security described in the credit line deed of trust. Such credit line deed of trust shall specify the maximum aggregate amount of principal to be secured at any one time.</p><p>C. From the date and actual time of the recording of a credit line deed of trust, the lien shall have priority (i) as to all other deeds, conveyances, or other instruments, or contracts in writing, that are unrecorded as of such date and time of recording and of which the beneficiary has no knowledge or notice and (ii) as to judgment liens subsequently docketed, except as provided in subsection D. Such priority shall extend to any advances or other extensions of credit made following the recordation of the credit line deed of trust. Amounts outstanding, together with interest, and other items provided by § <a href='/vacode/55.1-320/'>55.1-320</a>, shall continue to have priority until paid or curtailed. Mechanics' liens created under Title 43 shall continue to enjoy the same priority as created by that title. Purchase money security interests in goods and fixtures shall have the same priority as provided in Subpart 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/8.9A-317/'>8.9A-317</a> et seq.) of Part 3 of Title 8.9A.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A, B, and C, if a judgment creditor gives written notice to the beneficiary of record at the address indicated in the credit line deed of trust, such credit line deed of trust shall have no priority as to such judgment for any advances or extensions of credit made under such credit line deed of trust from the day following receipt of that notice except those that have been unconditionally and irrevocably committed prior to such date.</p><p>E. In addition to the language specified in subsection B, the credit line deed of trust shall set forth the name of the beneficiary and the address at which communications may be mailed or delivered to the beneficiary. Such name or address may be changed or modified by duly recorded instrument executed by the beneficiary only. If the note or indebtedness secured by the credit line deed of trust is assigned or transferred, the name and address of the new beneficiary may be set forth in the certificate of transfer provided by § <a href='/vacode/55.1-336/'>55.1-336</a>. Such original name or address, or if changed, such changed name or address, shall be the address for delivery of notices contemplated by this section. Receipt of notice at such address shall be deemed receipt by the beneficiary.</p><p>F. The grantor may require at any time a modification under the credit line deed of trust whereby any priority over subsequently recorded deeds of trust is surrendered as to future advances or other extensions of credit, which advances or extensions of credit are in the discretion of the party secured by the credit line deed of trust.</p><p>G. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A, B, and C, if a deed of trust under this section is a subordinate mortgage, as defined in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-319/'>55.1-319</a>, upon the recording of a refinance mortgage, as defined in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-319/'>55.1-319</a>, the credit line deed of trust shall retain the same subordinate position with respect to the refinance mortgage as it had with the prior mortgage, as defined in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-319/'>55.1-319</a>, provided that the refinance mortgage complies with the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-319/'>55.1-319</a>.</p><p>1982, c. 230, § 55-58.2; 1983, c. 124; 1984, c. 19; 1989, c. 346; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0205'>205</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0971'>971</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0338'>338</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>