# ยง 58.1-804 Construction loan deeds of trust or mortgages.

<p>A. As used in this section, the term "construction loan deed of trust or mortgage" means a deed of trust or mortgage upon real estate, which states therein that it is given to secure a loan for real estate construction, and the terms of which provide that the principal sum owing under the instrument giving rise to the deed of trust or mortgage shall become due and payable on demand or three years or less from the date of such instrument. The term "permanent loan deed of trust or mortgage" means a deed of trust or mortgage upon real estate, the terms of which provide that the principal sum owing under the instrument giving rise to the deed of trust or mortgage shall become due and payable more than three years from the date of such instrument, and such deed of trust or mortgage secures an instrument made by the same persons who made the instrument which the construction loan deed of trust or mortgage secured and substantially the same real estate is conveyed thereby.</p><p>B. The tax provided by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-803/'>58.1-803</a> shall apply to construction loan deeds of trust or mortgages.</p><p>C. The tax provided by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-803/'>58.1-803</a> shall not be imposed upon a permanent loan deed of trust or mortgage, as defined herein, if such deed of trust or mortgage is recorded within three years of the date of the recordation of the construction loan deed of trust or mortgage, as defined herein, and the tax on the construction loan deed of trust or mortgage has been paid. However, if the permanent loan deed of trust or mortgage, as defined herein, secures an instrument, the principal amount of which is more than the construction loan deed of trust or mortgage, the tax shall be imposed and calculated on the additional amount. Such permanent loan deed of trust or mortgage shall contain a reference to the construction loan deed of trust or mortgage and the book and page where recorded.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-55.1; 1970, c. 313; 1973, c. 139; 1977, c. 398; 1984, c. 675.</p>