# § 38.2-3719 Forms of credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance.

<p>A. Credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance shall be issued only in the following forms:</p><p>1. Individual policies of life insurance issued to debtors on the term plan;</p><p>2. Individual policies of accident and sickness insurance issued to debtors on a term plan or disability benefit provisions in individual policies of credit life insurance;</p><p>3. Group policies of life insurance issued to creditors providing insurance upon the lives of debtors on the term plan;</p><p>4. Group policies of accident and sickness insurance issued to creditors on a term plan insuring debtors or disability benefit provisions in group credit life insurance policies to provide such coverage.</p><p>B. A policy of group credit life insurance or group credit accident and sickness insurance may be issued to a creditor or its parent holding company or to a trustee, trustees or agent designated by two or more creditors, which creditor, holding company, affiliate, trustee, trustees or agent shall be deemed the policyholder, to insure debtors of the creditor or creditors, subject to the following requirements:</p><p>1. The debtors eligible for insurance under the policy shall be all of the debtors of the creditor or creditors, or all of any class or classes of the group. The policy may provide that the term "debtors" shall include (i) borrowers of money or purchasers of goods, services or property for which payment is arranged through a credit transaction; (ii) the debtors of one or more subsidiary corporations; and (iii) the debtors of one or more affiliated corporations, proprietors or partnerships if the business of the policyholder and of such affiliated corporations, proprietors or partnerships is under common control.</p><p>2. The premium for the policy shall be paid by the policyholder, either from the creditor's funds, or from charges collected from the insured debtors, or from both. Except as provided in subdivision 3 of this subsection, a policy on which no part of the premium is to be derived from the collection of such identifiable charges must insure all eligible debtors.</p><p>3. Credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance must be offered to all eligible debtors of a creditor except those for whom evidence of individual insurability is not satisfactory to the insurer.</p><p>Code 1950, § 38-428(6); 1950, p. 1001; 1952, c. 317, § 38.1-480; 1960, c. 272, § 38.2-3702; 1962, c. 154; 1975, c. 69; 1982, c. 223, § 38.1-482.3:1; 1983, c. 182; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 520; 1992, c. 586.</p>