# ยง 54.1-4300 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Infant formula" or "baby formula" means any food manufactured, packaged and labeled specifically for sale for consumption by a child under the age of two years.</p><p>"Itinerant merchant" means a merchant who transports an inventory of new merchandise to a building, vacant lot, or other location and who, at that location, displays, sells or offers to sell the new merchandise to the public. Itinerant merchant shall not include a merchant with an established store, regularly open to the public; a licensed merchant with a regularly serviced supply route or location; or a merchant who purchases merchandise directly from a manufacturer.</p><p>"New merchandise" means goods or products which are not used but are in a similar condition as the goods or products wholesaled by manufacturers or suppliers to established retail stores for first-time purchase by consumers. New merchandise shall not include (i) crafts or goods made by the seller or his own household; (ii) food stuffs; (iii) the seller's own household personal property; (iv) merchandise sold by nonprofit charitable, educational or religious organizations or at events sponsored by such organizations; or (v) merchandise sold during parades, festivals, sporting or entertainment events, civic or fundraising activities sponsored by nonprofit charitable, educational or religious organizations.</p><p>"Nonprescription drug" means any substances or mixture of substances containing medicines or drugs for which no prescription is required and which are generally sold for internal or topical use in the cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in human beings.</p><p>1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0138'>138</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0529'>529</a>.</p>