# § 54.1-2351 General powers and duties of Board concerning associations.

<p>A. The Board may adopt, amend, and repeal rules and regulations and issue orders consistent with and in furtherance of the objectives of this article, but the Board may not intervene in the internal activities of an association except to the extent necessary to prevent or cure violations of this article or of the chapter pursuant to which the association is created. The Board may prescribe forms and procedures for submitting information to the Board.</p><p>B. If it appears that any governing board has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice in violation of this article, the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.), the Virginia Condominium Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> et seq.), the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2100/'>55.1-2100</a> et seq.), or the Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2200/'>55.1-2200</a> et seq.), or any of the Board's regulations or orders, the Board without prior administrative proceedings may bring an action in the appropriate court to enjoin that act or practice or for other appropriate relief. The Board is not required to post a bond or prove that no adequate remedy at law exists.</p><p>C. The Board may intervene in any action involving a violation by a declarant or a developer of a time-share project of this article, the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.), the Virginia Condominium Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> et seq.), the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2100/'>55.1-2100</a> et seq.), or the Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2200/'>55.1-2200</a> et seq.), or any of the Board's regulations or orders.</p><p>D. The Board may accept grants-in-aid from any governmental source and may contract with agencies charged with similar functions in this or other jurisdictions in furtherance of the objectives of this article.</p><p>E. The Board may cooperate with agencies performing similar functions in this and other jurisdictions to develop uniform filing procedures and forms, uniform disclosure standards, and uniform administrative practices, and may develop information that may be useful in the discharge of the Board's duties.</p><p>F. In issuing any cease and desist order, the Board shall state the basis for the adverse determination and the underlying facts.</p><p>G. Without limiting the remedies that may be obtained under this article, the Board, without compliance with the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.), shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this section and may institute proceedings in equity to enjoin any person, partnership, corporation, or any other entity violating this article, the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.), the Virginia Condominium Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> et seq.), the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2100/'>55.1-2100</a> et seq.), or the Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2200/'>55.1-2200</a> et seq.), or any of the Board's regulations or orders. Such proceedings shall be brought in the name of the Commonwealth by the Board in the circuit court or general district court of the city or county in which the unlawful act occurred or in which the defendant resides.</p><p>H. The Board may assess a monetary penalty to be paid to the Common Interest Community Management Information Fund of not more than $1,000 per violation against any governing board that violates any provision of this article, the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.), the Virginia Condominium Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> et seq.), the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2100/'>55.1-2100</a> et seq.), or the Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2200/'>55.1-2200</a> et seq.), or any of the Board's regulations or orders. In determining the amount of the penalty, the Board shall consider the degree and extent of harm caused by the violation. No monetary penalty may be assessed under this article, the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.), the Virginia Condominium Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> et seq.), the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2100/'>55.1-2100</a> et seq.), or the Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2200/'>55.1-2200</a> et seq.), or any of the Board's regulations or orders unless the governing board has been given notice and an opportunity to be heard pursuant to the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). The penalty may be sued for and recovered in the name of the Commonwealth.</p><p>2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0557'>557</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0615'>615</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>