# ยง 45.2-854  Protective clothing.

<p>A. Every miner shall wear a protective hat while underground and while in any area on the surface where there is a danger of injury from falling objects.</p><p>B. Every person assigned to or performing duties on the surface of an underground coal mine, or any person entering the underground portion of such mine, shall wear reflective materials adequate to make him visible from all sides. Such reflective material shall be placed on a hard hat and at least one other item of outer clothing such as a belt, suspenders, jacket, coat, coveralls, shirt, pants, or vest.</p><p>C. Protective footwear shall be worn by each miner while on duty in or around a mine where falling objects may cause injury.</p><p>D. Every employee inside or outside of a mine shall wear an approved type of goggles or shields where there is a hazard from flying particles.</p><p>E. Every welder and helper shall use proper goggles or shields to protect his eyes.</p><p>F. Any miner engaged in haulage operations or employed around moving equipment on the surface or underground shall wear snug-fitting clothing.</p><p>G. Every employee shall wear gloves when handling material that may injure the hands or when handling energized cables. No gloves with gauntlet cuffs shall be worn around moving equipment.</p><p>H. Any miner who may be exposed for short periods to hazards from inhalation of gas, dust, fumes, or mist shall wear approved respiratory equipment. When the exposure is for a prolonged period, adequate approved measures to protect such miner or to reduce the hazard shall be taken.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-86; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-99; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.175; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0826'>826</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0862'>862</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>