# ยง 15.2-2214 Meetings.

<p>The local planning commission shall fix the time for holding regular meetings. The commission, by resolution adopted at a regular meeting, may also fix the day or days to which any meeting shall be continued if the chairman, or vice-chairman if the chairman is unable to act, finds and declares that weather or other conditions are such that it is hazardous for members to attend the meeting. Such finding shall be communicated to the members and the press as promptly as possible. All hearings and other matters previously advertised for such meeting shall be conducted at the continued meeting and no further advertisement is required. The commission shall cause a copy of such resolution to be inserted in a newspaper having general circulation in the locality at least seven days prior to the first meeting held pursuant to the adopted schedule.</p><p>Commissions shall meet at least every two months. However, in any locality with a population of not more than 7,500, the commission shall be required to meet at least once each year.</p><p>Special meetings of the commission may be called by the chairman or by two members upon written request to the secretary. The secretary shall mail to all members, at least five days in advance of a special meeting, a written notice fixing the time and place of the meeting and the purpose thereof.</p><p>Written notice of a special meeting is not required if the time of the special meeting has been fixed at a regular meeting, or if all members are present at the special meeting or file a written waiver of notice.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-963.2; 1962, c. 407, ยง 15.1-439; 1990, c. 664; 1997, c. 587; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0403'>403</a>.</p>