# ยง 45.2-1023  Forfeiture or release of performance bond.

<p>A. The Director shall adopt regulations, consistent with regulations adopted by the Secretary, establishing procedures, conditions, criteria, and schedules for the forfeiture or release of performance bonds or deposits required under this chapter; however, no bond shall be fully released until all reclamation requirements of this chapter and the regulations adopted hereunder are fully met.</p><p>B. Any person with a valid legal interest that could be adversely affected by release of the bond, or the responsible officer or head of any federal, state, or local governmental agency that (i) has jurisdiction by law or special expertise with respect to any environmental, social, or economic impact involved in the operation or (ii) is authorized to develop and enforce environmental standards with respect to such operations, has the right to file written objections to the proposed release from bond by the Director within 30 days after the last publication of notice, as required by regulation. If a written objection is filed and a hearing requested, the Director shall inform all interested parties of the time and place of the hearing and hold a public hearing, either in the locality of the coal surface mining operation proposed for bond release or in Richmond, at the option of the objector, within 30 days of the request for such hearing.</p><p>C. Without prejudice to the rights of any objector or the applicant or the responsibilities of the Director pursuant to this section, the Director may establish an informal conference, in accordance with regulations adopted pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-1014/'>45.2-1014</a>, to resolve written objections.</p><p>D. For the purpose of the hearing specified in subsection B, the Director may administer oaths, subpoena witnesses or written or printed materials, compel the attendance of witnesses or production of materials, and take evidence, including inspections of the land affected or other coal surface mining operations carried on by the applicant in the general vicinity. A verbatim record of each public hearing shall be made, and a transcript shall be made available on the motion of any party or by order of the Director.</p><p>1979, c. 290, ยง 45.1-247; 1984, c. 590; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>