# ยง 17.1-414 Facilities and supplies.

<p>A. The Court of Appeals shall be housed in the City of Richmond and, if practicable, in the same building occupied by the Supreme Court. When facilities are required for the convening of panels in other areas of the Commonwealth, the chief judge of the Court of Appeals shall provide for such physical facilities as are available for the operation of the Court of Appeals. The Court of Appeals may use any public property of, or any property leased or rented to, the Commonwealth or any of its political subdivisions for the holding of court and for its ancillary functions upon proper agreement with the applicable authorities. The Court of Appeals also may use any federal courtroom, the moot courtroom of any accredited law school located in the Commonwealth, or any other facility deemed adequate for the holding of court and for its ancillary functions upon proper agreement with the applicable authorities. Any expense incurred for use of such facilities may be paid from the funds appropriated by the General Assembly to the Court of Appeals.</p><p>B. The Court of Appeals shall purchase such books, pamphlets, publications, supplies, furnishings, and equipment as necessary for the efficient operation of the Court, and the cost thereof shall be paid by the clerk from the appropriation for the operation of the Court of Appeals.</p><p>C. The Court of Appeals shall utilize the State Law Library provided by ยง <a href='/vacode/42.1-60/'>42.1-60</a>.</p><p>1983, c. 413, ยง 17-116.011; 1984, c. 701; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872'>872</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0067'>67</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0197'>197</a>.</p>