# ยง 3.2-1607 Collection and disposition of tax by handler; reports.

<p>A. Every handler shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter from the person who purchases eggs for use or consumption in the Commonwealth and shall remit the tax to the Tax Commissioner by the 20th day of each month.</p><p>B. Every handler shall complete reports on forms furnished by the Tax Commissioner and submit the reports to the Tax Commissioner together with the tax submitted pursuant to subsection A. Each report shall include a statement of the gross volume of taxed eggs that have been packed, processed, purchased, sold, or handled by the handler. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3/'>58.1-3</a>, upon request, the Tax Commissioner shall provide to the Commissioner or the Egg Board copies of reports submitted pursuant to this section.</p><p>C. Every person who engages in business in the Commonwealth as a handler shall register, collect, and pay the tax on all eggs sold or delivered to anyone other than a registered handler for storage, use, or consumption in the Commonwealth. Such handlers shall maintain a certificate of registration, file returns, and perform all other duties required of handlers.</p><p>D. Any tax that is not paid when due shall be collected pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-1102/'>3.2-1102</a>.</p><p>E. Every handler shall keep a complete record of the eggs subject to the provisions of this chapter that are packed, processed, or handled by him and shall preserve such records for a period of not less than three years from the time the eggs were packed, processed, or handled. Such records shall be open for inspection by the Tax Commissioner and shall be established and maintained as required by the Tax Commissioner.</p><p>1980, c. 316, ยง 3.1-796.11:4; 1982, c. 172; 1984, c. 550; 1993, c. 809; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0565'>565</a>.</p>