# ยง 58.1-3245.2 Tax increment financing.

<p>A. The governing body of any county, city or town may adopt tax increment financing by passing an ordinance designating a development project area and providing that real estate taxes in the development project area shall be assessed, collected and allocated in the following manner for so long as any obligations or development project cost commitments secured by the Tax Increment Financing Fund, hereinafter authorized, are outstanding and unpaid.</p><p>1. The local assessing officer shall record in the land book both the base assessed value and the current assessed value of the real estate in the development project area.</p><p>2. Real estate taxes attributable to the lower of the current assessed value or base assessed value of real estate located in a development project area shall be allocated by the treasurer or director of finance pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>3. Real estate taxes attributable to the increased value between the current assessed value of any parcel of real estate and the base assessed value of such real estate shall be allocated by the treasurer or director of finance and paid into a special fund entitled the "Tax Increment Financing Fund" to pay the principal and interest on obligations issued or development project cost commitments entered into to finance the development project costs.</p><p>B. The governing body shall hold a public hearing on the need for tax increment financing in the county, city or town prior to adopting a tax increment financing ordinance. Notice of the public hearing shall be published once each week for three consecutive weeks immediately preceding the public hearing in each newspaper of general circulation in such county, city or town. The notice shall include the time, place and purpose of the public hearing, define tax increment financing, indicate the proposed boundaries of the development project area, and propose obligations to be issued to finance the development project area costs.</p><p>1988, c. 776; 1990, c. 296; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0667'>667</a>.</p>