# § 15.2-2223 Comprehensive plan to be prepared and adopted; scope and purpose.

<p>A. The local planning commission shall prepare and recommend a comprehensive plan for the physical development of the territory within its jurisdiction and every governing body shall adopt a comprehensive plan for the territory under its jurisdiction.</p><p>In the preparation of a comprehensive plan, the commission shall make careful and comprehensive surveys and studies of the existing conditions and trends of growth, and of the probable future requirements of its territory and inhabitants. The comprehensive plan shall be made with the purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the territory which will, in accordance with present and probable future needs and resources, best promote the health, safety, morals, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of the inhabitants, including the elderly and persons with disabilities.</p><p>The comprehensive plan shall be general in nature, in that it shall designate the general or approximate location, character, and extent of each feature, including any road improvement and any transportation improvement, shown on the plan and shall indicate where existing lands or facilities are proposed to be extended, widened, removed, relocated, vacated, narrowed, abandoned, or changed in use as the case may be.</p><p>B. 1. As part of the comprehensive plan, each locality shall develop a transportation plan that designates a system of transportation infrastructure needs and recommendations that include the designation of new and expanded transportation facilities and that support the planned development of the territory covered by the plan and shall include, as appropriate, but not be limited to, roadways, bicycle accommodations, pedestrian accommodations, railways, bridges, waterways, airports, ports, and public transportation facilities. The plan shall recognize and differentiate among a hierarchy of roads such as expressways, arterials, and collectors. In developing the plan, the locality shall take into consideration how to align transportation infrastructure and facilities with affordable, accessible housing and community services that are located within the territory in order to facilitate community integration of the elderly and persons with disabilities. The Virginia Department of Transportation shall, upon request, provide localities with technical assistance in preparing such transportation plan.</p><p>2. The transportation plan shall include a map that shall show road and transportation improvements, including the cost estimates of such road and transportation improvements from the Virginia Department of Transportation, taking into account the current and future needs of residents in the locality while considering the current and future needs of the planning district within which the locality is situated.</p><p>3. The transportation plan, and any amendment thereto pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/15.2-2229/'>15.2-2229</a>, shall be consistent with the Commonwealth Transportation Board's Statewide Transportation Plan developed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-353/'>33.2-353</a>, the Six-Year Improvement Program adopted pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-214/'>33.2-214</a>, and the location of routes to be followed by roads comprising systems of state highways pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-208/'>33.2-208</a>. The locality shall consult with the Virginia Department of Transportation to assure such consistency is achieved. The transportation plan need reflect only those changes in the annual update of the Six-Year Improvement Program that are deemed to be significant new, expanded, or relocated roadways.</p><p>4. Prior to the adoption of the transportation plan or any amendment to the transportation plan, the locality shall submit such plan or amendment to the Department for review and comment. The Department shall conduct its review and provide written comments to the locality on the consistency of the transportation plan or any amendment to the provisions of subdivision 1. The Department shall provide such written comments to the locality within 90 days of receipt of the plan or amendment, or such other shorter period of time as may be otherwise agreed upon by the Department and the locality.</p><p>5. The locality shall submit a copy of the adopted transportation plan or any amendment to the transportation plan to the Department for informational purposes. If the Department determines that the transportation plan or amendment is not consistent with the provisions of subdivision 1, the Department shall notify the Commonwealth Transportation Board so that the Board may take appropriate action in accordance with subsection F of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-214/'>33.2-214</a>.</p><p>6. If the adopted transportation plan designates corridors planned to be served by mass transit, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-100/'>33.2-100</a>, a portion of its allocation from (i) the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority distribution specified in subdivision B 1 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-2510/'>33.2-2510</a>, (ii) the commercial and industrial real property tax revenue specified in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-3221.3/'>58.1-3221.3</a>, and (iii) the secondary system road construction program, as described in Article 5 (§ <a href='/vacode/33.2-351/'>33.2-351</a> et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 33.2, may be used for the purpose of utility undergrounding in the planned corridor, if the locality matches 100 percent of the state allocation.</p><p>7. Each locality's amendments or updates to its transportation plan as required by subdivisions 2 through 5 shall be made on or before its ongoing scheduled date for updating its transportation plan.</p><p>C. The comprehensive plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts, and descriptive matter, shall show the locality's long-range recommendations for the general development of the territory covered by the plan. It may include, but need not be limited to:</p><p>1. The designation of areas for various types of public and private development and use, such as different kinds of residential, including age-restricted, housing; business; industrial; agricultural; mineral resources; conservation; active and passive recreation; public service; flood plain and drainage; and other areas;</p><p>2. The designation of a system of community service facilities such as parks, sports playing fields, forests, schools, playgrounds, public buildings and institutions, hospitals, nursing homes, assisted living facilities, community centers, waterworks, sewage disposal or waste disposal areas, and the like;</p><p>3. The designation of historical areas and areas for urban renewal or other treatment;</p><p>4. The designation of areas for the implementation of reasonable measures to provide for the continued availability, quality, and sustainability of groundwater and surface water;</p><p>5. A capital improvements program, a subdivision ordinance, a zoning ordinance and zoning district maps, mineral resource district maps and agricultural and forestal district maps, where applicable;</p><p>6. The location of existing or proposed recycling centers;</p><p>7. The location of military bases, military installations, and military airports and their adjacent safety areas; and</p><p>8. The designation of corridors or routes for electric transmission lines of 150 kilovolts or more.</p><p>D. The comprehensive plan shall include the designation of areas and implementation of measures for the construction, rehabilitation and maintenance of affordable housing, which is sufficient to meet the current and future needs of residents of all levels of income in the locality while considering the current and future needs of the planning district within which the locality is situated.</p><p>E. The comprehensive plan shall consider strategies to provide broadband infrastructure that is sufficient to meet the current and future needs of residents and businesses in the locality. To this end, local planning commissions may consult with and receive technical assistance from the Center for Innovative Technology, among other resources.</p><p>1975, c. 641, § 15.1-446.1; 1976, c. 650; 1977, c. 228; 1988, c. 268; 1989, c. 532; 1990, c. 19; 1993, cc. 116, 758; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0585'>585</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0600'>600</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0811'>811</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0799'>799</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0466'>466</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0699'>699</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0527'>527</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0563'>563</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0564'>564</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0761'>761</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0733'>733</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0561'>561</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0585'>585</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0646'>646</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0656'>656</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0397'>397</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0443'>443</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0420'>420</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0796'>796</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0828'>828</a>.</p>