# § 15.2-1400 Governing bodies.

<p>A. The qualified voters of every locality shall elect a governing body for such locality. The date, place, number, term, and other details of the election shall be as specified by law, general or special. Qualification for office is provided in Article 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-1522/'>15.2-1522</a> et seq.) of Chapter 15.</p><p>B. The governing body of every locality shall be composed of not fewer than three nor more than 11 members.</p><p>C. Chairmen, mayors, supervisors, and councilmen are subject to the prohibitions set forth in §§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-1534/'>15.2-1534</a> and <a href='/vacode/15.2-1535/'>15.2-1535</a>.</p><p>D. A governing body may punish or fine a member of the governing body for disorderly behavior.</p><p>E. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-222/'>24.2-222</a> and <a href='/vacode/24.2-222.1/'>24.2-222.1</a>, any city or town charter, or any other provision of law, general or special, beginning with any election held after January 1, 2022, elections for mayor, members of a local governing body, or members of an elected school board shall be held at the time of the November general election for terms to commence January 1.</p><p>F. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, general or special, in a locality that imposes district-based or ward-based residency requirements for members of the governing body, the member elected from each district or ward shall be elected by the qualified voters of that district or ward and not by the locality at large.</p><p>1971, Ex. Sess., c. 199, § 15.1-37.4; 1982, c. 297; 1983, c. 595; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0249'>249</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0103'>103</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0225'>225</a>.</p>