# § 4.1-101.05 Employees of the Authority.

<p>A. Employees of the Authority shall be considered employees of the Commonwealth. Employees of the Authority shall be eligible for membership in the Virginia Retirement System or other retirement plan as authorized by Article 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/51.1-125/'>51.1-125</a> et seq.) of Chapter 1 of Title 51.1 and participation in all health and related insurance and other benefits, including premium conversion and flexible benefits, available to state employees as provided by law. Employees of the Authority shall be employed on such terms and conditions as established by the Board. The Board shall develop and adopt policies and procedures that afford its employees grievance rights, ensure that employment decisions shall be based upon the merit and fitness of applicants, and prohibit discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board shall develop, implement, and administer a paid leave program, which may include annual, personal, and sick leave or any combination thereof. All other leave benefits shall be administered in accordance with Chapter 11 (§ <a href='/vacode/51.1-1100/'>51.1-1100</a> et seq.) of Title 51.1, except as otherwise provided in this section.</p><p>B. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Authority shall give preference in hiring to special agents and employees of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control. The Authority shall issue a written notice to all persons whose employment at the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control will be transferred to the Authority. The date upon which such written notice is issued shall be referred to herein as the "Option Date." In order to facilitate an orderly and efficient transition and ensure the continuation of operations during the transition from the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control (the Department) to the Authority, the Authority shall have discretion, subject to the time limitations contained herein, to determine the date upon which any employee's employment with the Department will end or be transferred to the Authority. This date shall be stated in the written notice and shall be referred to herein as the "Transition Date." No Transition Date shall occur prior to July 1, 2018, without the mutual agreement of the employee and the Authority. No Transition Date shall be set beyond December 31, 2018. Each person whose employment will be transferred to the Authority may, by written request made within 180 days of the Option Date, elect not to become employed by the Authority. Any employee of the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control who (i) is not offered the opportunity to transfer to employment by the Authority or (ii) is not offered a position with the Authority for which the employee is qualified or is offered a position that requires relocation or a reduction in salary shall be eligible for the severance benefits conferred by the provisions of the Workforce Transition Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3200/'>2.2-3200</a> et seq.). Any employee who accepts employment with the Authority shall not be considered to be involuntarily separated from state employment and shall not be eligible for the severance benefits conferred by the provisions of the Workforce Transition Act. Any eligibility for such severance benefits shall be contingent on the continued employment through an employee's Transition Date.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, any person whose employment is transferred to the Authority as a result of this section and who is a member of any plan for providing health insurance coverage pursuant to Chapter 28 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2800/'>2.2-2800</a> et seq.) of Title 2.2 shall continue to be a member of such health insurance plan under the same terms and conditions as if no transfer had occurred.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, any person whose employment is transferred to the Authority as a result of this section and who is a member of the Virginia Retirement System or other retirement plan as authorized by Article 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/51.1-125/'>51.1-125</a> et seq.) of Chapter 1 of Title 51.1 shall continue to be a member of the Virginia Retirement System or other such authorized retirement plan under the same terms and conditions as if no transfer had occurred.</p><p>E. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any person whose employment is transferred to the Authority as a result of this section and who was subjected to a criminal history background check as a condition of employment with the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control shall not be subject to the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/4.1-103.1/'>4.1-103.1</a>, unless the Authority deems otherwise.</p><p>2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038'>38</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730'>730</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0698'>698</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0707'>707</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0742'>742</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1137'>1137</a>.</p>