# § 32.1-162.15:3 (Effective July 1, 2023) Services for survivors of sexual assault; plan required.

<p>A. Every hospital licensed by the Department shall develop and, upon approval by the Department, implement a plan to provide either sexual assault survivor treatment services or sexual assault survivor transfer services for survivors of sexual assault.</p><p>B. Sexual assault survivor treatment plans shall include provisions for (i) the delivery of services described in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:4/'>32.1-162.15:4</a> and (ii) the storage, retention, and dissemination of photographic evidence in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:8/'>32.1-162.15:8</a>.</p><p>C. Sexual assault survivor transfer service plans shall include (i) provisions for the delivery of services described in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:5/'>32.1-162.15:5</a> and (ii) the written agreement of a treatment hospital to accept transfer of survivors of sexual assault.</p><p>D. A treatment hospital for which a plan has been approved pursuant to subsection B or a transfer hospital for which a plan has been approved pursuant to subsection C may enter into an agreement for the transfer of pediatric survivors of sexual assault from the treatment hospital or transfer hospital to an approved pediatric health care facility pursuant to a pediatric sexual assault survivor transfer plan. Such plan shall include (i) provisions for the delivery of services described in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:6/'>32.1-162.15:6</a> and (ii) the written agreement of an approved pediatric health care facility to accept transfer of survivors of sexual assault.</p><p>E. Sexual assault survivor treatment plans, sexual assault survivor transfer plans, and pediatric sexual assault survivor transfer plans shall be submitted in a form and in accordance with procedures specified by the Board. The Department shall approve or deny such plans, in writing, within 30 days of receipt of such plans. If the Department denies a plan submitted pursuant to this section, the Department shall provide the hospital with a written statement setting forth the reasons for such denial.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0725'>725</a>.</p>