# ยง 33.2-2701 Creation of district.

<p>A. A district may be created in the City of Charlottesville and the County of Albemarle by resolutions of such localities' governing bodies. Such resolutions shall be considered upon the petition to each governing body of a locality in which the proposed district by the owners of at least 51 percent of either the land area or the assessed value of land, in each locality that (i) is within the boundaries of the proposed district and (ii) has been zoned for commercial or industrial use or is used for such purposes.</p><p>B. The petition to the local governing bodies shall:</p><p>1. Set forth the name and describe the boundaries of the proposed district;</p><p>2. Describe the transportation improvements proposed within the district;</p><p>3. Propose a plan for providing such transportation improvements within the district and describe specific terms and conditions with respect to all commercial and industrial zoning classifications and uses, densities, and criteria related thereto that the petitioners request for the proposed district;</p><p>4. Describe the benefits that can be expected from the provision of such transportation improvements within the district; and</p><p>5. Request the local governing bodies to establish the proposed district for the purposes set forth in the petition.</p><p>C. Upon the filing of such a petition, each local governing body shall fix a day for a hearing on the question of whether the proposed district shall be created. The hearing shall consider whether the residents and owners of real property within the proposed district would benefit from the establishment of the proposed district. All interested persons who either reside in or own taxable real property within the proposed district shall have the right to appear and show cause why any property or properties should not be included in the proposed district. Such resolution shall be binding upon the local governing body with respect to the inclusion or exclusion of such properties within the proposed district. The petition shall comply with the provisions of this section with respect to minimum acreage or assessed valuation. Notice of the hearing shall be given by publication once a week for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the locality. At least 10 days shall intervene between the third publication and the date set for the hearing.</p><p>D. If both local governing bodies find the creation of the proposed district would be in furtherance of their comprehensive plans for the development of the area, in the best interests of the residents and owners of real property within the proposed district, and in furtherance of the public health, safety, and welfare, both local governing bodies may pass resolutions that are reasonably consistent with the petition, creating the district and providing for the appointment of an advisory board in accordance with this chapter. The resolutions shall provide a description with specific terms and conditions of all commercial and industrial zoning classifications that shall be in force in the district upon its creation, together with all related criteria and a term of years, not to exceed 20 years, as to which each such zoning classification and each related criterion set forth therein shall remain in force within the district without elimination, reduction, or restriction, except (i) upon the written request or approval of the owner of any property affected by a change or (ii) as specifically required to comply with federal or state law.</p><p>Each resolution creating the district shall also provide (a) that the district shall expire 35 years from the date upon which the resolution is passed or (b) that the district shall expire when the district is abolished in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-2714/'>33.2-2714</a>. After the public hearing, each local governing body shall deliver a certified copy of its proposed resolution creating the district to the petitioning landowners or their attorneys-in-fact. Any petitioning landowner may then withdraw his signature on the petition, in writing, at any time prior to the vote of the local governing body. In the case where any signature on the petition is withdrawn, the local governing body may pass the proposed resolution only upon certification that the petition continues to meet the provisions of this section. After both local governing bodies have adopted resolutions creating the district, the district shall be established and the name of the district shall be "The Charlottesville-Albemarle Transportation Improvement District."</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0966'>966</a>, ยง 33.1-448; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>