# ยง 8.01-412.4 Procedure.

<p>The taking of audio-visual depositions shall be in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Court generally applicable to depositions. However, the following procedure shall be observed in recording an audio-visual deposition:</p><p>The deposition must begin with an oral or written statement on camera which includes (i) each operator's name and business address or, if applicable, the identity of the video conferencing or teleconferencing proprietor and locations participating in the video conference or teleconference; (ii) the name and business address of the operator's employer; (iii) the date, time and place of the deposition; (iv) the caption of the case; (v) the name of the witness; (vi) the party on whose behalf the deposition is being taken; (vii) with respect to video conferencing or teleconferencing, the identities of persons present at the deposition and the location of each such person; and (viii) any stipulations by the parties.</p><p>In addition, all counsel present on behalf of any party or witness shall identify themselves on camera. The oath for witnesses shall be administered on camera. If the length of a deposition requires the use of more than one recording unit, the end of each unit and the beginning of each succeeding unit shall be announced on camera. At the conclusion of a deposition, a statement shall be made on camera that the deposition is concluded. A statement may be made on camera setting forth any stipulations made by counsel concerning the custody of the audio-visual recording and exhibits or other pertinent matters.</p><p>All objections must be made as in the case of stenographic depositions. In any case where the court orders the audio-visual recording to be edited prior to its use, the original recording shall not be altered but shall be maintained as is.</p><p>Unless otherwise stipulated by the parties, the original audio-visual recording of a deposition, any copy edited pursuant to an order of the court, and exhibits shall be filed with the clerk of the court in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Court.</p><p>1983, c. 305; 1993, c. 208; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0821'>821</a>.</p>