# ยง 45.2-1005  Conflicts of interest prohibited.

<p>A. For the purposes of this section, "financial interest" includes a pecuniary interest accruing to an employee or to the employee's spouse, minor child, or other relative living in the same household.</p><p>B. No employee of the Department performing any function or duty under this chapter shall have a financial interest in any underground or surface coal mining operation.</p><p>C. The Director shall adopt regulations for the monitoring and enforcement of the provisions of this section, including regulations (i) for the filing and review of statements and supplements by employees concerning any financial interest that might be affected by this section; (ii) for the hiring, transfer, and removal of employees consistent with the prohibition of this section; (iii) for the resolution of prohibited interests; (iv) for the confidentiality, protection, and disclosure to enforcement authorities of reporting statements; and (v) for such exemptions from the provisions of this section as are consistent with federal law.</p><p>D. Judicial proceedings to enforce the provisions of this section may be brought by the Attorney General at the request of the Director.</p><p>E. Nothing in this section shall be construed as repealing or amending any other provision of law pertaining to conflicts of interest except that in cases of conflict, the provisions of this section shall control.</p><p>1979, c. 290, ยง 45.1-231; 1984, c. 590; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>