# ยง 10.1-205 Management of False Cape State Park.

<p>A. The Director shall adopt measures to safeguard the environment of False Cape State Park. These shall include, but not be limited to, the following:</p><p>1. Provisions to ensure that adequate drinking water and environmentally sound sewage disposal are provided for visitors to the Park;</p><p>2. Adequate measures to protect the dunes, wildlife, and sensitive areas of the Park;</p><p>3. Adequate measures to protect, wherever practicable, nesting areas of sea turtles, beach nesting birds, peregrine falcons, and other endangered species.</p><p>B. The Director shall be responsible for providing that law-enforcement, fire and rescue services are available for the Park.</p><p>C. The Director shall consider limiting visitors into the Park to less than 2,000 per day if such a lower limit is necessary to preserve the Park environment.</p><p>D. The Director shall consider further limiting visitors into the Park during certain portions of the year if such a limitation is necessary to preserve the environment of the Park and of the Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge.</p><p>E. No motor powered vehicle of any kind shall be permitted upon the land of False Cape State Park except as follows:</p><p>1. A public transportation system operated by the Department, or its licensee or designee, to transport not more than 2,000 persons per day into and out of the Park;</p><p>2. Official vehicles of the Commonwealth and of the City of Virginia Beach;</p><p>3. Vehicles engaged in the construction and maintenance of improvements within the Park authorized by the Commonwealth;</p><p>4. Police and emergency vehicles;</p><p>5. Vehicles for which the operators thereof have been issued permits (i) by the Department of Interior, prior to July 1, 1984, pursuant to Public Law 96-315 to travel through the Back Bay National Wildlife Refuge and (ii) by the Department to travel through the Park.</p><p>1984, c. 706, ยง 10-21.3:2; 1988, c. 891.</p>