# § 18.2-421 Information to be filed by clandestine organization with State Corporation Commission.

<p>Every existing membership corporation and every existing unincorporated association which is a clandestine organization as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-420/'>18.2-420</a>, shall file with the clerk of the State Corporation Commission a sworn copy of its constitution, bylaws, rules, regulations, and oath of membership, together with a roster of its membership and a list of its officers for the current year. Every such corporation and association shall, in case its constitution, bylaws, rules, regulations or oath of membership or any part thereof be revised, changed or amended, within ten days after such revision or amendment, file with the clerk of the State Corporation Commission a sworn copy of such revised, changed or amended constitution, bylaw, rule, regulation or oath of membership. Every such corporation or association shall, within thirty days after a change has been made in its officers, file with the clerk of the State Corporation Commission a sworn statement showing such change. Every such corporation or association shall, at intervals of six months, file with the clerk of the State Corporation Commission, a sworn statement showing the names and addresses of such additional members as have been received in such corporation or association during such interval.</p><p>The violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor.</p><p>The provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-420/'>18.2-420</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-421/'>18.2-421</a> shall not apply to fraternal organizations which are organized for charitable, benevolent, and educational objectives and whose transactions and list of members are open for public inspection.</p><p>Code 1950, § 18.1-380.2; 1968, c. 792; 1975, cc. 14, 15.</p>