# § 19.2-303.2 Persons charged with first offense may be placed on probation.

<p>Whenever any person who has not previously been convicted of any felony, or has not previously had a proceeding against him for violation of such an offense dismissed as provided in this section, pleads guilty to or enters a plea of not guilty to any crime against property constituting a misdemeanor, under Article 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-95/'>18.2-95</a> et seq.), 5 (§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-119/'>18.2-119</a> et seq.) except for a violation of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-130/'>18.2-130</a> or <a href='/vacode/18.2-130.1/'>18.2-130.1</a>, 6 (§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-137/'>18.2-137</a> et seq.), 7 (§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-144/'>18.2-144</a> et seq.), or 8 (§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-153/'>18.2-153</a> et seq.) of Chapter 5 of Title 18.2, the court, upon such plea if the facts found by the court would justify a finding of guilt, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused, may defer further proceedings and place him on probation subject to terms and conditions, which may include restitution for losses caused, set by the court. If the court defers further proceedings for an offense that is required to be reported to the Central Criminal Records Exchange pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-390/'>19.2-390</a>, at that time the court shall determine whether the clerk of court has been provided with the fingerprint identification information or fingerprints of the accused, taken by a law-enforcement officer pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-390/'>19.2-390</a>, and, if not, shall order that the fingerprints and photograph of the accused be taken by a law-enforcement officer. Upon violation of a term or condition, the court may enter an adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided. Upon fulfillment of the terms and conditions, and upon determining that the clerk of court has been provided with the fingerprint identification information or fingerprints of such person for an offense that is required to be reported to the Central Criminal Records Exchange pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-390/'>19.2-390</a>, the court shall discharge the person and dismiss the proceedings against him. Discharge and dismissal under this section shall be without adjudication of guilt and is a conviction only for the purpose of applying this section in subsequent proceedings.</p><p>1985, c. 617; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0782'>782</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0783'>783</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0989'>989</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0990'>990</a>.</p>