# § 51.1-1150 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Act" means the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/65.2-100/'>65.2-100</a> et seq.).</p><p>"Company" means an insurance company issuing a long-term disability insurance policy purchased by the Board pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Continuous service" means an uninterrupted period of service as a participating employee with the same employer.</p><p>"Disability" means a partial disability or total disability.</p><p>"Disability benefit" means income replacement payments payable to a participating employee under a short-term or long-term disability benefit program pursuant to this chapter. Disability benefits do not include benefits payable under the Act.</p><p>"Eligible employee" means a person who is (i) not eligible for the disability program pursuant to Chapter 11 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1100/'>51.1-1100</a> et seq.) and (ii) participating in the hybrid retirement program described in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-169/'>51.1-169</a>.</p><p>"Partial disability" means a disability that exists during the first 24 months following the occurrence or commencement of an illness or injury when an employee is earning less than 80 percent of his predisability earnings and, as a result of an injury or illness, is (i) able to perform one or more, but not all, of the essential job functions of his own job on an active employment or a part-time basis; or (ii) able to perform all of the essential job functions of his own job only on a part-time basis.</p><p>"Participating employee" means any eligible employee required to participate in the program.</p><p>"Program" means the program providing short-term disability and long-term disability benefits for participating employees established pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Service" means a period of service as a participating employee.</p><p>"Total disability" means a disability that exists (i) during the first 24 months following the occurrence or commencement of an illness or injury if an employee is unable to perform all of his essential job functions or (ii) after 24 months following the occurrence or commencement of an illness or injury if an employee is unable to perform any job for which he is reasonably qualified based on his training or experience and earning less than 80 percent of his predisability earnings.</p><p>"Work-related injury" means an injury, as such term is defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/65.2-101/'>65.2-101</a>, to a participating employee for which benefits are payable under the Act and the employer for purposes of the Act is the Commonwealth or other political subdivision through which the participating employee became eligible for the program.</p><p>In addition to the definitions listed in this section, the definitions listed in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-124.3/'>51.1-124.3</a> shall, as the context requires, apply to this chapter except as otherwise provided.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0823'>823</a>.</p>