# ยง 2.2-5102 Performance grant for major eligible manufacturers.

<p>A. As used in this section, "major eligible employer" means any eligible manufacturer or other nonmanufacturing basic employer that makes a capital investment of at least $100 million that results in the creation of at least 1,000 new jobs. For corporate headquarters and other basic employers that make a capital investment of at least $100 million and create at least 400 new jobs paying at least twice the prevailing average wage for the area, the 1,000 job requirement may be reduced in proportion to the factor by which the wages for the new jobs exceed the prevailing average wage for the area. All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to major eligible manufacturers and major eligible nonmanufacturing basic employers, in this chapter collectively referred to as "major eligible employers."</p><p>B. Subject to the appropriation by the General Assembly of sufficient moneys to the Major Eligible Employer Grant subfund, any major eligible employer shall be eligible for a grant under this section of up to $25 million, to be payable from such subfund over a period of not less than five years and not more than seven years, commencing in the third year following the approval by the Secretary of the employer's grant application.</p><p>C. The Partnership shall establish an application process by which major eligible employers may apply for a grant under this section. An application for a grant under this section shall not be approved until the Partnership has verified that the capital investment has been completed.</p><p>D. The Comptroller shall not draw any warrants to issue checks for grants under this chapter without a specific legislative appropriation as specified in conditions and restrictions on expenditures in the appropriation act. The payment of any grant under this section shall be in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in a memorandum of understanding between a major eligible employer and the Commonwealth. These terms and conditions shall supplement the provisions of this chapter and shall include but not be limited to the terms of the payment of the grant. The payment of the grant shall be made in full or in proportion to a major eligible employer's fulfillment of the terms of the memorandum of understanding. The Secretary shall consult with the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations prior to entering into any memorandum of understanding. The House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations shall have the opportunity to review any memorandum of understanding prior to its execution by the Commonwealth.</p><p>1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0875'>875</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0961'>961</a>, ยง 2.1-548.43:4; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0571'>571</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0017'>17</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0761'>761</a>.</p>