# ยง 56-484.14 Powers and duties of the 9-1-1 Services Board.

<p>The 9-1-1 Services Board shall have the power and duty to:</p><p>1. Make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties and the execution of its powers, including purchase agreements payable from (i) the Wireless E-911 Fund and (ii) other moneys appropriated for the provision of 9-1-1 services.</p><p>2. Pursue all legal remedies to enforce any provision of this article, or any contract entered into pursuant to this article.</p><p>3. Develop a comprehensive, statewide enhanced 9-1-1 plan for wireless E-911, VoIP E-911, and any other future communications technologies accessing 9-1-1 for emergency purposes. In constructing and periodically updating this plan as appropriate, the Board shall monitor trends and advances in enhanced wireless, VoIP, and other emergency telecommunications technologies, plan and forecast future needs for these enhanced technologies, and formulate strategies for the efficient and effective delivery of 9-1-1 services in the future.</p><p>4. Grant such extensions of time for compliance with the provisions of ยง <a href='/vacode/56-484.16/'>56-484.16</a> as the Board deems appropriate.</p><p>5. Take all steps necessary to inform the public of the use of the digits "9-1-1" as the designated emergency telephone number and the use of the digits "#-7-7" as a designated non-emergency telephone number.</p><p>6. Report annually to the Governor, the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations and the House Committee on Appropriations, and the Virginia State Crime Commission on (i) the state of enhanced 9-1-1 services in the Commonwealth, (ii) the impact of, or need for, legislation affecting enhanced 9-1-1 services in the Commonwealth, and (iii) the need for changes in the E-911 funding mechanism provided to the Board, as appropriate.</p><p>7. Provide advisory technical assistance to PSAPs and state and local law enforcement, and fire and emergency medical services agencies, upon request.</p><p>8. Collect, distribute, and withhold moneys from the Wireless E-911 Fund as provided in this article.</p><p>9. Develop a comprehensive single, statewide electronic addressing database to support geographic data and statewide base map data programs pursuant to subsection D of ยง <a href='/vacode/44-146.18:6/'>44-146.18:6</a>.</p><p>10. Receive such funds as may be appropriated for purposes consistent with this article and such gifts, donations, grants, bequests, or other funds as may be received from, applied for or offered by either public or private sources.</p><p>11. Manage other moneys appropriated for the provision of enhanced emergency telecommunications services.</p><p>12. Perform all acts necessary, convenient, or desirable to carrying out the purposes of this article.</p><p>13. Drawing from the work of 9-1-1 professional organizations, in its sole discretion, publish best practices for PSAPs. These best practices shall be voluntary and recommended by a subcommittee composed of PSAP representatives.</p><p>14. Develop or adopt and publish standards for an emergency services IP network and core NG9-1-1 services on that network to ensure that enhanced public safety telephone services seamlessly interoperate within the Commonwealth and with surrounding states.</p><p>15. Monitor developments in 9-1-1 service and multiline telephone systems and the impact of such technologies upon the implementation of Article 8 (ยง <a href='/vacode/56-484.19/'>56-484.19</a> et seq.). The Board shall include its assessment of such impact in the annual report filed pursuant to subdivision 6.</p><p>2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1064'>1064</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0942'>942</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0739'>739</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0427'>427</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0138'>138</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0361'>361</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0423'>423</a>.</p>