# ยง 24.2-235 Procedure.

<p>A petition for the removal of an officer shall state with reasonable accuracy and detail the grounds or reasons for removal and shall be signed by the person or persons making it under penalties of perjury. The circuit court shall not dismiss the petition solely because of an error or omission in the form of the petition relating to its statement of the grounds or reasons for removal if such error or omission is not material in determining whether the statement of the grounds or reasons for removal provides a reasonable basis under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-233/'>24.2-233</a> to consider the removal of the officer.</p><p>As soon as the petition is filed with the court, the court shall issue a rule requiring the officer to show cause why he should not be removed from office, the rule alleging in general terms the cause or causes for such removal. The rule shall be returnable in not less than five nor more than ten days and shall be served upon the officer with a copy of the petition. Upon return of the rule duly executed, unless good cause is shown for a continuance or postponement to a later day in the term, the case shall be tried on the day named in the rule and take precedence over all other cases on the docket. If upon trial it is determined that the officer is subject to removal under the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-233/'>24.2-233</a>, he shall be removed from office.</p><p>1975, cc. 515, 595, ยง 24.1-79.7; 1993, c. 641; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0868'>868</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0876'>876</a>.</p>