# ยง 36-156.3 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"CDFI" means a community development financial institution that provides credit and financial services for underserved communities.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.</p><p>"Fund" means the Virginia Food Access Investment Fund.</p><p>"Funding" means loans, forgivable loans, and grants made from the Fund.</p><p>"Grocery store" means a for-profit or not-for-profit self-service retail establishment that primarily sells meat, seafood, fruits, vegetables, dairy products, dry groceries, household products, and sundries.</p><p>"Innovative food retail project" means an innovative project, including a mobile market or a delivery model, that addresses food access issues in an underserved community.</p><p>"Program" means the Virginia Food Access Investment Program.</p><p>"Small food retailer," also referred to as a small-scale store, neighborhood store, small grocery, farmer's market, or bodega, means a small retail outlet of under 2,500 square feet that sells a limited selection of foods and other products.</p><p>"Underserved community" means a census tract determined to be an area with low supermarket access either by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), as identified in the USDA Food Access Research Atlas, or through a methodology that has been adopted for use by another governmental or philanthropic healthy food initiative.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0956'>956</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0957'>957</a>.</p>