# ยง 54.1-1141 Certification required; exemption.

<p>A. No person shall engage in, or offer to engage in, work as an elevator mechanic or accessibility mechanic in the Commonwealth unless he has been certified under the provisions of this article. Individuals shall not be subject to certification as an elevator mechanic or accessibility mechanic when working under the direct and immediate supervision of an elevator mechanic or certified accessibility mechanic who is certified in the specialty for which work is being performed. Individuals certified as elevator mechanics or accessibility mechanics shall not be required to hold any other professional or occupational license or certification; however, nothing in this subsection shall prohibit an individual from holding more than one professional or occupational license or certification.</p><p>B. Any individual desiring to be certified as an elevator mechanic or accessibility mechanic shall file a written application on a form prescribed by the Board. The application shall be accompanied by a fee set by the Board pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-201/'>54.1-201</a>. The application shall contain, at a minimum, the applicant's name, place of employment, business address, and information on the knowledge, skills, abilities and education or training of the applicant.</p><p>C. Accessibility mechanics desiring to work on limited use/limited application elevators, as defined by the Uniform Statewide Building Code, shall obtain a limited use/limited application endorsement on their certification.</p><p>D. Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent a person who is not certified as an elevator mechanic or accessibility mechanic from performing maintenance that is not related to the operating integrity of an elevator, escalator, or related conveyance.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0188'>188</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0424'>424</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0081'>81</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0207'>207</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0151'>151</a>.</p>