# ยง 54.1-3314.1 Continuing education requirements; exemptions; extensions; procedures; out-of-state licensees; nonpractice licenses.

<p>A. Each pharmacist shall have obtained a minimum of 15 continuing education hours of pharmaceutical education through an approved continuing pharmaceutical education program during the year immediately preceding his license renewal date.</p><p>B. An approved continuing pharmaceutical education program shall be any program approved by the Board.</p><p>C. Pharmacists who have been initially licensed by the Board during the one year preceding the license renewal date shall not be required to comply with the requirement on the first license renewal date that would immediately follow.</p><p>D. The Board may grant an exemption from the continuing education requirement if the pharmacist presents evidence that failure to comply was due to circumstances beyond the control of the pharmacist.</p><p>E. Upon the written request of a pharmacist, the Board may grant an extension of one year in order for a pharmacist to fulfill the continuing education requirements for the period of time in question. Such extension shall not relieve the pharmacist of complying with the continuing education requirement for the current period.</p><p>F. The pharmacist shall attest to the fact that he has completed the continuing education requirements as specified by the Board.</p><p>G. The following shall apply to the requirements for continuing pharmaceutical education:</p><p>1. The provider of an approved continuing education program shall issue to each pharmacist who has successfully completed a program certification that the pharmacist has completed a specified number of hours.</p><p>2. The certificates so issued to the pharmacist shall be maintained by the pharmacist for a period of two years following the renewal of his license.</p><p>3. The pharmacist shall provide the Board, upon request, with certification of completion of continuing education programs in a manner to be determined by the Board.</p><p>H. Pharmacists who are also licensed in other states and who have obtained a minimum of fifteen hours of approved continuing education requirements of such other states need not obtain additional hours.</p><p>I. The Board shall provide for an inactive status for those pharmacists who do not wish to practice in Virginia. The Board shall require upon request for change from inactive to active status proof of continuing education hours as specified in regulations. No person shall practice in Virginia unless he holds a current active license.</p><p>J. As part of the annual 15-hour requirement, the Board may require up to two hours of continuing education in a specific subject area. If the Board designates a subject area for continuing education, it shall publish such requirement no later than January 1 of the calendar year for which the specific continuing education is required.</p><p>1992, c. 868; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0672'>672</a>.</p>