# ยง 32.1-122.06 Funds for regional health planning.

<p>In the interest of maintaining a regional health planning mechanism in the Commonwealth, there is hereby established funding for regional health planning. From such moneys as may be available and appropriated, this fund shall provide support of a maximum of fifteen cents per capita for each regional health planning agency as may be designated. Per capita population figures shall be obtained from official population estimates. This funding may be used for the administration of the regional health planning agency, the analysis of issues, and such other health planning purposes as may be requested.</p><p>Any local governing body may choose to appropriate funds for the purpose of providing additional funds for a regional health planning agency. However, nothing in this section shall place any obligation on any local governing body to appropriate funds to any regional health planning agency.</p><p>Each regional health planning agency shall be required to apply to the Department for funding, which shall be distributed as grants. This funding shall be administered by the Department, and the Board shall promulgate regulations as are necessary and relevant to administer the funding. All applications for such funding shall be accompanied by letters of assurance that the applicant shall comply with all state requirements.</p><p>For purposes of this section, regional health planning agencies in existence as of July 1, 2002, shall be retained as designated regional health planning agencies unless (i) the Board, pursuant to its regulations, revises such designations, or (ii) any individual regional health planning agency ceases operation or the designation as a regional health planning agency is otherwise terminated in accordance with the agreement between the regional health planning agency and the Board.</p><p>The extent to which grants are awarded from this fund shall be dependent upon the amount of money appropriated to implement the provisions of this section.</p><p>1989, cc. 617, 633; 1990, c. 391; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0083'>83</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0175'>175</a>.</p>