# ยง 36-99.11 Identification of disabled parking spaces by above grade signage.

<p>A. All parking spaces reserved for the use of persons with disabilities shall be identified by above grade signs, regardless of whether identification of such spaces by above grade signs was required when any particular space was reserved for the use of persons with disabilities. A sign or symbol painted or otherwise displayed on the pavement of a parking space shall not constitute an above grade sign. Any parking space not identified by an above grade sign shall not be a parking space reserved for the disabled within the meaning of this section.</p><p>B. All above grade disabled parking space signs shall have the bottom edge of the sign no lower than four feet nor higher than seven feet above the parking surface. Such signs shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Statewide Building Code.</p><p>C. Building owners shall install above grade signs identifying all parking spaces reserved for the use of persons with disabilities in accordance with this section and the applicable provisions of the Uniform Statewide Building Code by January 1, 1993.</p><p>D. Effective July 1, 1998, all disabled parking signs shall include the following language: PENALTY, $100-500 Fine, TOW-AWAY ZONE. Such language may be placed on a separate sign and attached below existing above grade disabled parking signs, provided that the bottom edge of the attached sign is no lower than four feet above the parking surface.</p><p>1992, cc. 753, 764; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0783'>783</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0904'>904</a>.</p>