# § 15.2-2254 Statutory provisions effective after ordinance adopted.

<p>After the adoption of a subdivision ordinance in accordance with this chapter, the following provisions shall be effective in the territory to which the ordinance applies:</p><p>1. No person shall subdivide land without making and recording a plat of the subdivision and without fully complying with the provisions of this article and of the subdivision ordinance.</p><p>2. No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded unless and until it has been submitted to and approved by the local planning commission or by the governing body or its duly authorized agent, of the locality wherein the land to be subdivided is located; or by the commissions, governing bodies or agents, as the case may be, of each locality having a subdivision ordinance, in which any part of the land lies.</p><p>3. No person shall sell or transfer any land of a subdivision, before a plat has been duly approved and recorded as provided herein, unless the subdivision was lawfully created prior to the adoption of a subdivision ordinance applicable thereto. However, nothing herein contained shall be construed as preventing the recordation of the instrument by which such land is transferred or the passage of title as between the parties to the instrument.</p><p>4. Any person violating the foregoing provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each lot or parcel of land so subdivided, transferred or sold and shall be required to comply with all provisions of this article and the subdivision ordinance. The description of the lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from the penalties or remedies herein provided.</p><p>5. No clerk of any court shall file or record a plat of a subdivision required by this article to be recorded until the plat has been approved as required herein. The penalties provided by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/17.1-223/'>17.1-223</a> shall apply to any failure to comply with the provisions of this subsection.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 15-784, 15-785, 15-794.1, 15-967.8; 1962, c. 407, § 15.1-473; 1975, c. 641; 1997, c. 587; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0408'>408</a>.</p>