# ยง 2.2-203.1 Secretary to establish telecommuting policy; duties.

<p>A. The Secretary shall establish a comprehensive statewide telecommuting and alternative work schedule policy under which eligible employees of state agencies, as determined by state agencies, may telecommute or participate in alternative work schedules, and the Secretary shall periodically update such policy as necessary.</p><p>B. The telecommuting and alternative work schedule policy described in subsection A shall include, but not be limited to, model guidelines, rules and procedures for telecommuting and participation in alternative work schedules, and identification of the broad categories of positions determined to be ineligible to participate in telecommuting and the justification for such a determination. Such policy may also include an incentive program, to be established and administered by the Department of Human Resource Management, that may encourage state employees to telecommute or participate in alternative work schedules and that may encourage the state agencies' management personnel to promote telecommuting and alternative work schedules for eligible employees.</p><p>C. The Secretary shall have the following duties related to promoting the telecommuting and alternative work schedule:</p><p>1. Promote and encourage use of telework alternatives for public and private employees, including but not limited to appropriate policy and legislative initiatives. Upon request, the Secretary may advise and assist private-sector employers in the Commonwealth in planning, developing, and administering programs, projects, plans, policies, and other activities for telecommuting by private-sector employees and in developing incentives provided by the private sector to encourage private sector employers in the Commonwealth to utilize employee telecommuting.</p><p>2. Advise and assist state agencies and, upon request of the localities, advise and assist localities in planning, developing, and administering programs, projects, plans, policies, and other activities to promote telecommuting by employees of state agencies or localities.</p><p>3. Coordinate activities regarding telework with, and regularly report to, a panel consisting of the Secretaries of Commerce and Trade, Finance, and Transportation. The Secretary of Administration shall serve as chair of the panel. Additional members may be designated by the Governor. Staff support for the panel shall be provided by the offices of the Secretaries of Administration and Transportation, and the Governor shall designate additional agencies to provide staff support as necessary.</p><p>4. Report annually to the General Assembly on telework participation levels and trends of both private and public-sector employees in the Commonwealth.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>, ยง 2.1-51.31:1; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0755'>755</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0421'>421</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0086'>86</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>.</p>