# ยง 10.1-1425.21 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Distributor" means any person who takes title to products or packaging purchased for resale.</p><p>"Intentional introduction" means the act of deliberately using a regulated heavy metal in the formulation of a package or packaging component where its continued presence in the final package or packaging component is to provide a specific characteristic or quality. The use of a regulated heavy metal as a processing agent or intermediate to impart certain chemical or physical changes during manufacturing, whereupon the incidental retention of a residue of the metal in the final package or packaging component is neither desired nor deliberate is not considered to be "intentional introduction" where the final package or packaging component is in compliance with subsection C of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1425.22/'>10.1-1425.22</a>.</p><p>"Manufacturer" means any person that produces products, packages, packaging, or components of products or packaging.</p><p>"Package" means any container which provides a means of marketing, protecting, or handling a product, including a unit package, intermediate package, or a shipping container, as defined in the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) specification D996. The term includes, but is not limited to, unsealed receptacles such as carrying cases, crates, cups, pails, rigid foil and other trays, wrapping and wrapping film, bags, and tubs.</p><p>"Packaging component" means any individual assembled part of a package, including, but not limited to, interior and exterior blocking, bracing, cushioning, weatherproofing, exterior strapping, coatings, closures, inks, and labels. Tin-plated steel that meets ASTM specification A-623 shall be considered as a single package component. Electro-galvanized coated steel that meets ASTM specification A-525, and hot-dipped coated galvanized steel that meets ASTM specification A-879 shall be treated in the same manner as tin-plated steel.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0944'>944</a>; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0115'>115</a>.</p>