# ยง 24.2-537 Procedure when nominee by default dies or withdraws or nomination is set aside prior to primary.

<p>A. If any person who would have been nominated as the candidate of a political party for any office in any general election by reason of the fact that he was the only person who filed the required declaration of and petition for candidacy dies or withdraws as the party candidate, or his nomination is set aside for any reason, 45 days or more before the day on which the primary would have been held if two or more candidates had qualified, the appropriate committee of the political party shall determine the time and method of nominating its candidate for the office.</p><p>B. If the party committee determines that the party's nominee shall be elected at the scheduled primary, any person desiring to become a candidate for nomination by the party at that primary who is otherwise qualified may file a declaration of and petition for his candidacy with the proper chairman of his party committee. No person whose nomination has been set aside for fraud knowingly participated in by the candidate, or other person who knowingly participated in such fraud, shall be deemed qualified. The declaration and petition shall comply in every respect with the requirements established generally for such declarations and petitions in this article, except that the declaration and petition shall be filed at least 35 days before the day on which the primary is to be held.</p><p>If more than one person qualifies, the party chairman shall promptly certify their names to the State Board and the appropriate electoral boards as having qualified under the provisions of this section. The electoral boards having charge of the printing of the official ballots for the primary election shall either:</p><p>1. Cause to be printed thereon the name of every person so certified; or</p><p>2. If the official ballots have already been printed, cause separate ballots to be printed for the office for which two or more persons have qualified pursuant to the provisions of this section.</p><p>In the event that only one person qualifies as a candidate in accordance with the provisions of this section, the person so qualifying shall be declared the nominee of his party for that office and his name shall not be printed on the primary ballot.</p><p>In the event that no person qualifies as a candidate pursuant to the provisions of this section, or that the death or withdrawal or setting aside of candidacy of any such party nominee should occur at a time which is less than 45 days prior to any such primary, the appropriate committee of the political party shall determine the time and method of nominating its candidate for the office.</p><p>C. No party shall nominate any person whose nomination has been set aside for fraud knowingly participated in by the candidate, or any other person who knowingly participated in such fraud.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 24-391; 1970, c. 462, ยง 24.1-195; 1983, c. 483; 1993, c. 641; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0449'>449</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0645'>645</a>.</p>