# ยง 15.2-5307 Appointment, qualifications, tenure and compensation of commissioners.

<p>An authority shall consist of not more than 15 commissioners appointed by the mayor, and he shall designate the first chairman. No more than three commissioners shall be practicing physicians. No officer or employee of the city, with the exception of the director of a local health department, shall be eligible for appointment; however, no director of a local health department shall serve as chairman of the authority. No local health director who serves as a hospital authority commissioner shall serve as a member of the regional health planning agency board simultaneously. No practicing physician shall be appointed to such authority in the City of Hopewell.</p><p>One-third of the commissioners who are first appointed shall be designated by the mayor to serve for terms of two years, one-third to serve for terms of four years, and one-third to serve for terms of six years, respectively, from the date of their appointment. Thereafter, the term of office shall be six years. No person shall be appointed to succeed himself following four successive terms in office; no term of less than six years shall be deemed a term in office for the purposes of this sentence.</p><p>A commissioner shall hold office until the earlier of the effective date of his resignation or the date on which his successor has been appointed and has qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term. In the event of a vacancy in the office of commissioner by expiration of term of office or otherwise, the remaining commissioners shall submit to the mayor nominations for appointments. The mayor may successively require additional nominations and shall have power to appoint any person so nominated. All such vacancies shall be filled from such nominations. A majority of the commissioners currently in office shall constitute a quorum. The mayor may file with the city clerk a certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any commissioner, and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of such commissioner. A commissioner shall receive no compensation for his services, but he shall be entitled to the necessary expenses including traveling expenses incurred in the discharge of his duties.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 32-220; 1960, c. 305; 1968, c. 783, ยง 15.1-1540; 1977, c. 158; 1979, c. 719; 1986, c. 240; 1997, c. 587; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0630'>630</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0658'>658</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>.</p>