# § 46.2-744 Special license plates for members of National Guard; fees.

<p>On receipt of an application and written confirmation that the applicant is a member of the National Guard, the Commissioner shall issue to the applicant special license plates.</p><p>No fee shall be charged for license plates issued under this section to a member of the Virginia National Guard for any one motor vehicle owned and used personally by the applicant, unless the plates bear reserved numbers or letters as provided for in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-726/'>46.2-726</a>. In this latter case, the fee for the issuance of license plates shall be the same as for those issued under § <a href='/vacode/46.2-726/'>46.2-726</a>. For each additional set of license plates issued to an applicant under this section, the Commissioner shall charge the prescribed fee for state license plates.</p><p>The fee for members of non-Virginia National Guard units shall be ten dollars per year plus the prescribed cost for state license plates, unless the plates bear reserved numbers or letters as provided for in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-726/'>46.2-726</a>. In this latter case, such license plates shall be subject to an additional charge of ten dollars per year for the reserved numbers or letters.</p><p>The provisions of subdivisions 1 and 2 of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-725/'>46.2-725</a> shall not apply to license plates issued under this section.</p><p>1981, c. 355, § 46.1-105.9; 1982, c. 85; 1989, c. 727; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0252'>252</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0153'>153</a>.</p>