# ยง 38.2-3418.20 Coverage for hearing aids and related services [Not in effect].

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Hearing aid" means any wearable, nondisposable instrument or device designed or offered to aid or compensate for impaired human hearing and any parts, attachments, or accessories, including earmolds, but excluding batteries and cords. Hearing aids are not to be considered durable medical equipment.</p><p>"Related services" includes earmolds, initial batteries, and other necessary equipment, maintenance, and adaptation training.</p><p>B. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='/vacode/38.2-3419/'>38.2-3419</a>, each insurer proposing to issue individual or group accident and sickness insurance policies providing hospital, medical and surgical, or major medical coverage on an expense-incurred basis; each corporation providing individual or group accident and sickness subscription contracts; and each health maintenance organization providing a health care plan for health care services shall provide coverage for hearing aids and related services for children 18 years of age or younger under any policy, contract, or plan delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in the Commonwealth. The coverage shall include payment of the cost of one hearing aid per hearing-impaired ear every 24 months, up to $1,500 per hearing aid. The insured may choose a higher-priced hearing aid and may pay the difference in cost above $1,500, with no financial or contractual penalty to the insured or to the provider of the hearing aid.</p><p>C. No insurer, corporation, or health maintenance organization shall impose upon any person receiving benefits pursuant to this section any copayment or fee, and no condition may be applied to the person that is not equally imposed upon all individuals in the same benefit category.</p><p>D. Coverage shall be available under this section only for services and equipment recommended by an otolaryngologist. Such recommended services and equipment may be provided or dispensed by an otolaryngologist, licensed audiologist, or licensed hearing aid specialist.</p><p>E. The provisions of this section shall apply to any policy, contract, or plan delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in the Commonwealth on and after January 1, 2021.</p><p>F. The provisions of this section shall not apply to short-term travel, accident-only, limited or specified disease policies, or contracts designed for issuance to persons eligible for coverage under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, known as Medicare, or any other similar coverage under state or federal governmental plans or to short-term nonrenewable policies of not more than six months' duration.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1094'>1094</a>, see 2020, c. 1289, item 487, subdivs. C1, C2, and C3.</p>