# § 51.1-500 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Accident" means  an accident covered under the group insurance coverage purchased by the Board.</p><p>"Board" means  the Board of Trustees of the Virginia Retirement System.</p><p>"College savings trust account" means  the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/23.1-700/'>23.1-700</a>.</p><p>"Company" means  insurance company.</p><p>"Contributor" means  the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/23.1-700/'>23.1-700</a>.</p><p>"Dependent child" means  (i) the insured employee's unmarried natural or legally adopted children who are not self-supporting; (ii) the insured employee's unmarried stepchildren living full time with the insured employee in a parent-child relationship and who can be claimed as a dependent on the insured employee's federal income tax return; (iii) any other children if they are in the insured employee's court-ordered custody; or (iv) other dependent children of the employee's family who are eligible for coverage under the family membership program offered under policies and procedures of the Department of Human Resource Management governing health insurance plans administered pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-1204/'>2.2-1204</a> or § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2818/'>2.2-2818</a>.</p><p>"Dismemberment" means  a dismemberment covered under the group insurance coverage purchased by the Board.</p><p>"Eligible educational institution" has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 529 of the Internal Revenue Code.</p><p>"Felonious assault" means  a physical assault (i) by another person resulting in bodily harm to an insured employee; (ii) that takes place while such employee is performing his customary duties at the employer's normal place of business or at other places the employer's business requires him to travel; (iii) that involves the use of force or violence with the intent to cause harm; and (iv) that is a felony or misdemeanor under applicable law.</p><p>"Group insurance program" or "insurance program" means  the plan covered under the policy purchased by the Board which provides group life, accidental death, and dismemberment insurance coverage for employees.</p><p>"Immediate family member" means  the insured employee's spouse, children, parents, grandparents, grandchildren, brothers and sisters and their spouses.</p><p>"Qualified higher education expenses" has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 529 of the Internal Revenue Code.</p><p>"Qualifying child" means  a dependent child less than eighteen years of age, or if eighteen years of age or older a dependent child enrolled in high school.</p><p>"Retirement System" means  the Virginia Retirement System.</p><p>"Safety restraint system" means  a properly installed seatbelt, lap and shoulder restraint or other restraint approved by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration or any successor governmental agency. The term excludes an air bag safety system.</p><p>In addition to the definitions listed above, the definitions listed in § <a href='/vacode/51.1-124.3/'>51.1-124.3</a> shall apply to this chapter except as otherwise provided.</p><p>1990, c. 832; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0685'>685</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0690'>690</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0245'>245</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0374'>374</a>.</p>