# ยง 32.1-274 Persons in charge of institutions and funeral directors, etc., to keep records; lists sent to State Registrar.

<p>A. Every person in charge of an institution shall keep a record of personal data concerning each person admitted or confined to such institution. This record shall include such information as required for the certificates of birth, death, and reports of spontaneous fetal death and induced termination of pregnancy required by this chapter. The record shall be made at the time of admission from information provided by the person being admitted or confined, but when it cannot be so obtained, the information shall be obtained from relatives or other persons acquainted with the facts. The name and address of the person providing the information shall be a part of the record.</p><p>B. When a dead human body is released or disposed of by an institution, the person in charge of the institution shall keep a record showing the name of the deceased, date of death, the name and address of the person to whom the body is released and the date of removal from the institution, or, if final disposal is by the institution, the date, place, and manner of disposition.</p><p>C. A funeral director, embalmer, or other person who removes from the place of death or transports or is in charge of final disposition of a dead body or fetus, in addition to filing any certificate, report or form required by this chapter, shall keep a record which shall identify the body, and such information pertaining to his receipt, removal, and delivery of such body as may be prescribed in regulations adopted by the Board.</p><p>D. Not later than the tenth day of the month following the month of occurrence, the administrator of each institution shall cause to be sent to the State Registrar a list showing thereon all births, deaths, and fetal deaths occurring in such institution during the preceding month. Such lists shall be on forms provided by the State Registrar.</p><p>E. Not later than the tenth day of the month following the month of occurrence, each funeral director shall send to the State Registrar a list showing thereon all caskets furnished, bodies prepared for disposition and transportation and funerals performed where no casket was furnished by the funeral director during the preceding month. Such lists shall be on forms provided by the State Registrar.</p><p>F. Records maintained under this section shall be retained for a period of not less than ten years and shall be made available for inspection by the State Registrar or his representative upon demand.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 32-353.29; 1960, c. 451; 1979, c. 711; 1983, c. 240.</p>