# § 6.2-1121 Board of directors.

<p>A. The affairs of every state savings institution shall be managed by a board of directors of not less than five nor more than 25 persons. Every director of a stock savings institution shall be the owner in his own name and have in his personal possession or control, shares of stock in the savings institution of which he is a director that have a market value at the time such director is first elected to the board of not less than $500. Such shares of stock shall be unpledged, except as required to be pledged to a Federal Home Loan Bank, Federal Reserve Bank, or other federal agency, and unencumbered at the time of his becoming a director and during the whole of his term as director. If a stock savings institution is controlled by a savings institution holding company, a director may comply with the provisions of this section for each stock savings institution of which he is a director by ownership, in similar manner, of shares of capital stock of the holding company that have a market value at the time such director is first elected to the board of not less than $500.</p><p>B. Every director of a mutual state association shall have a savings account in the association of which he is a director, in his own name or jointly with his spouse, of not less than $500. A mutual state savings bank shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A, except that, in lieu of owning qualifying shares of stock in the savings bank, each director shall maintain, while a director, a savings account in the savings bank of not less than $500. Any account required by this subsection shall be unpledged, except as required to be pledged to a Federal Home Loan Bank, and unencumbered at the time of his becoming a director and during the whole term as director. The office of any director violating the provisions of subsection A or this subsection shall immediately become vacant.</p><p>C. Every director of a state savings institution, within 30 days after his election or reelection, shall take and subscribe to an oath that he (i) will diligently and honestly perform his duties as director and (ii) is the owner and has in his personal possession or control the shares of stock or savings account in the savings institution required by this section and, in the case of reelection or reappointment, that, during the whole of his immediate previous term as a director, such stock or account was not at any time pledged or encumbered in any other manner to secure a loan. The oath, subscribed to by the director and certified by the officer before whom it is taken, shall be transmitted to the Commission. Any director who fails for a period of 30 days after his election, reelection, appointment or reappointment to take the oath required by this subsection shall forfeit his office.</p><p>D. Within 60 days following the election or reelection of any person as a director of a state savings institution, the savings institution shall furnish such information to the Commission relative to the personal character, integrity, financial condition, and personal and business background of the director as the Commission shall from time to time prescribe. The report, under oath, shall be signed by the director as well as by a designated officer of the savings institution. Any person knowingly making a false statement in such a report shall be guilty of perjury, punishable as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-434/'>18.2-434</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 6-201.34; 1960, c. 402; 1966, c. 584, § 6.1-164; 1972, c. 796, § 6.1-195.41; 1974, c. 77; 1985, c. 425, § 6.1-194.14; 1986, c. 509; 1991, c. 230, § 6.1-194.117; 1992, c. 552; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0105'>105</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>