# ยง 15.2-2661 Provisions of chapter controlling; powers conferred are additional.

<p>Insofar as the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the provisions of any law, the provisions of this chapter shall be controlling. The powers conferred by this chapter are in addition to the powers conferred by any other law. Bonds may be issued under this chapter for any permitted purpose notwithstanding that any other law may provide for the issuance of bonds for like purposes and without regard to the requirements, restrictions or other provisions contained in any other law. Bonds may be issued under this chapter notwithstanding any debt or other limitation prescribed by any other law. The mode and method of procedure for the issuance of bonds under this chapter need not conform to the provisions of any other law.</p><p>Bonds may be issued under the provisions of this chapter without obtaining the consent of any commission, board, bureau or agency of the Commonwealth, and without any other proceeding or the happening of any other condition or thing except those proceedings, conditions or things which are specifically required by this chapter.</p><p>Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, any referendum requirement for the issuance of bonds or debt limitation contained in any charter or local or special act shall control over the provisions of this chapter after July 1, 1992.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-666.68; 1958, c. 640; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-227; 1991, c. 668, ยง 15.1-227.63; 1997, c. 587.</p>