# ยง 54.1-828 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Amateur" means an individual who has never participated in a boxing, martial arts, or professional wrestling event for money, compensation, or reward other than a suitably inscribed memento.</p><p>"Boxer" means a person competing in the sport of boxing.</p><p>"Boxing" means the contact sport of attack or defense using fists.</p><p>"Cable television system" means any facility consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and associated equipment designed to provide video programming to multiple subscribers when subscriber interaction is required to select a specific video program for an access fee established by the cable television system for that specific video program.</p><p>"Contractor" means any person who has been recognized by the Director, through a contract pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-832/'>54.1-832</a>, as an appropriate responsible party to provide services to assist the Commonwealth in complying with the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation or its successor.</p><p>"Director" means the Director of the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation.</p><p>"Event" means any boxing, martial arts, or professional wrestling show that includes one or more bouts, contests, or matches.</p><p>"Exhibition" means any occurrence in which boxers or martial artists show or display skills without striving to win.</p><p>"Manager" means any person who serves as a representative or agent of a boxer, martial artist, or professional wrestler to arrange for his participation in an event.</p><p>"Martial artist" means a person competing in the sport of martial arts.</p><p>"Martial arts" or "mixed martial arts" means any of several Asian arts of combat or self-defense, alone or in combination, including but not limited to aikido, karate, judo, muay thai, or tae kwon do, usually practiced as sport and which may involve the use of striking weapons.</p><p>"Matchmaker" means any person who proposes, selects, arranges for, or in any manner procures specific individuals to be contestants in an event.</p><p>"Person" means a natural person, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association or any other entity.</p><p>"Professional" means a person who participates or has ever participated for money, compensation, or reward other than a suitably inscribed memento in any boxing, martial arts, or professional wrestling event.</p><p>"Professional wrestler" means any professional participating in professional wrestling.</p><p>"Professional wrestling" means an event in which contestants incorporate the sport of wrestling into choreographed performances.</p><p>"Promote" or "promotion" means to organize, arrange, publicize, or conduct an event or exhibition in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Promoter" means any person who undertakes to promote an event or exhibition.</p><p>"Regulant" means any person required by this chapter to obtain a prior authorization from the Department.</p><p>"Sanctioning organization" means an entity approved by the Director pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-829.1/'>54.1-829.1</a>.</p><p>"Trainer," "second" or "cut man" means an individual who undertakes to assure the well-being of a boxer or martial artist by providing instruction or advice concerning techniques or strategies of boxing or martial arts, and who may work in the corner with a boxer or martial artist between the rounds of a match to assure his well-being and provide necessary equipment and advice concerning match participation.</p><p>"Wrestler" means any person competing or participating as an opponent in wrestling.</p><p>"Wrestling" means any of several styles of physical competition in which individuals attempt to subdue or unbalance an opponent, including Greco-Roman, freestyle, grappling, or submission, usually practiced as a sport.</p><p>1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0895'>895</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0287'>287</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0264'>264</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0756'>756</a>.</p>