# ยง 15.2-4120 Court granting transition to town status to exist for 10 years.

<p>A. The special court created pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-4101/'>15.2-4101</a> shall not be dissolved after rendering a decision granting any motion or petition for transition to town status, but shall remain in existence for a period of 10 years from the effective date of any transition order entered, or from the date of any decision of the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeals affirming such an order. Vacancies occurring in the court during such 10-year period shall be filled by designation of another judge from the panel provided for in Chapter 30 (ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-3000/'>15.2-3000</a> et seq.) of this title.</p><p>B. The court may be reconvened at any time during the 10-year period on its own motion, or on motion of the governing body of the county, or of the town, or on petition of not less than 15 percent of the registered voters of the town.</p><p>C. The court shall have power and it shall be its duty, at any time during such period, to enforce the performance of the terms and conditions under which town status was granted, and to issue appropriate process to compel such performance. The court may, in its discretion, award attorney fees, court and other reasonable costs to the party or parties on whose motion the court is reconvened.</p><p>D. Any such action of the court shall be subject to review by the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals in the same manner as is provided with respect to the original decision of the court.</p><p>1988, c. 881, ยง 15.1-965.27; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0489'>489</a>.</p>