# ยง 4.1-228 Suspension or revocation; disposition of beverages on hand; termination.

<p>A. Alcoholic beverages, other than beer and wine, owned by or in possession of, or for sale by, any licensee at the time the license of such person is suspended or revoked may be disposed of as follows:</p><p>1. Sold by such person to the Board at prices and terms agreed upon by the Board and such person;</p><p>2. Sold to persons in the Commonwealth licensed to sell such alcoholic beverages upon permits granted by the Board and conditions specified by the Board; or</p><p>3. Sold to persons outside the Commonwealth for resale outside the Commonwealth upon permits granted by the Board.</p><p>B. Beer and wine owned and in possession of, or either, or for sale by, any licensee at the time the license of such person is suspended or revoked may be sold to any person authorized to purchase the same for resale upon permits granted by the Board and upon payment of any excise tax due thereon.</p><p>C. All alcoholic beverages owned by or in possession of any person whose license is suspended or revoked shall be disposed of by such person in accordance with the provisions of this section within sixty days from the date of such suspension or revocation.</p><p>D. Alcoholic beverages owned by, or in possession of, or for sale by persons whose licenses have been terminated other than by suspension or revocation may be disposed of in accordance with subsections A or B within such time as the Board deems proper. Such period shall not be less than sixty days.</p><p>E. All alcoholic beverages owned by or remaining in the possession of any person described in subsections A, B, or D after the expiration of such period shall be deemed contraband and forfeited to the Commonwealth in accordance with the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-338/'>4.1-338</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 4-37; 1956, c. 521; 1970, cc. 545, 676; 1976, cc. 696, 698, 702; 1978, c. 579; 1979, c. 537; 1980, c. 299; 1981, cc. 24, 586, 600; 1982, c. 214; 1983, c. 608; 1984, cc. 180, 200, 703; 1985, c. 559; 1986, cc. 101, 318, 615; 1987, c. 252; 1991, c. 468; 1992, cc. 161, 820; 1993, c. 866.</p>