# § 64.2-1900 Definitions.

<p>In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:</p><p>"Adult" means an individual who attained the age of 18 years.</p><p>"Benefit plan" means an employer's plan for the benefit of an employee or partner.</p><p>"Broker" means a person lawfully engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities or commodities for the person's own account or for the account of others.</p><p>"Conservator" means a person appointed or qualified by a court to act as general, limited, or temporary guardian of a minor's property or a person legally authorized to perform substantially the same functions.</p><p>"Court" means the circuit court having appropriate jurisdiction.</p><p>"Custodial property" means (i) any interest in property transferred to a custodian under this chapter and (ii) the income from and proceeds of that interest in property.</p><p>"Custodian" means a person so designated under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1908/'>64.2-1908</a> or a successor or substitute custodian designated under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1917/'>64.2-1917</a>.</p><p>"Financial institution" means a bank, trust company, savings institution, or credit union chartered and supervised under state or federal law.</p><p>"Legal representative" means an individual's personal representative or conservator.</p><p>"Member of the minor's family" means the minor's parent, stepparent, spouse, grandparent, brother, sister, uncle, or aunt, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption.</p><p>"Minor" means an individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.</p><p>"Person" means an individual, corporation, organization, or other legal entity.</p><p>"Personal representative" means an executor, administrator, successor personal representative, or special administrator of a decedent's estate or a person legally authorized to perform substantially the same functions.</p><p>"Qualified minor's trust" means any trust, including a trust created by a custodian, that meets the requirements of § 2503(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the regulations implementing that section.</p><p>"State" includes any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession subject to the legislative authority of the United States.</p><p>"Transfer" means a transaction that creates custodial property under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1908/'>64.2-1908</a>.</p><p>"Transferor" means a person who makes a transfer under this chapter.</p><p>"Trust company" means a financial institution, corporation, or other legal entity authorized to exercise general trust powers.</p><p>1988, c. 516, § 31-37; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0307'>307</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614'>614</a>.</p>