# ยง 30-71 Hearing criteria.

<p>At each hearing which may be held pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-70/'>30-70</a>, the standing committee conducting such hearing and the agencies testifying shall respond to, but not be limited to consideration of, the following questions:</p><p>1. What are the problems, needs, or missions that the program is intended to address and what has been accomplished?</p><p>2. What is the effect of the program on the economy including but not limited to: competition, unemployment, economic stability, attraction of new business, productivity, and price inflation to consumers?</p><p>3. Would the absence of any regulatory activity significantly harm or endanger the public health, safety, or welfare?</p><p>4. Has the program or agency carried out its mission in an efficient, economic, and effective manner?</p><p>5. What services could be provided and what level of performance could be achieved if the program were funded at a level less than the existing level?</p><p>6. What other state programs have similar, duplicate, or conflicting objectives?</p><p>7. What federal activities have similar, duplicate, or conflicting objectives?</p><p>8. How does the agency ensure that it responds promptly and effectively to complaints concerning persons affected by the agency?</p><p>9. To what extent have the agency's operations been impeded by existing statutes, procedures, or practices of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or of other state agencies?</p><p>10. What action plans have been or are being proposed to improve agency operations where the need for improvements has been identified in previous executive or legislative oversight studies and reports?</p><p>1978, c. 388; 1986, c. 302.</p>