# ยง 3.2-5500 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Apple vinegar," "cider vinegar," and similar words mean the product made exclusively from the expressed juice of washed, fresh, whole apples or portions thereof by alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations.</p><p>"Corn sugar vinegar," "glucose vinegar," and similar words mean the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations, without distillation, of solutions of corn sugar or glucose prepared from cornstarch.</p><p>"Distilled vinegar," "grain vinegar," or "spirit vinegar," or similar words mean the product made by the acetous fermentation of dilute distilled alcohol derived from grain, sugar, syrup, molasses, or refiners' syrup.</p><p>"Evaporated apple products vinegar," "vinegar made from evaporated apple products," and similar words mean the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations of the aqueous extract obtained from clean, sound dried apples, dried chopped apples, or dried apple skins or cores.</p><p>"Grape vinegar," "wine vinegar," and similar words mean the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations of the expressed juice of fresh whole grapes or portions thereof.</p><p>"Malt vinegar" and similar words mean the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations, without distillation, of an infusion of barley malt or cereals whose starch has been converted by malt.</p><p>"Sugar vinegar" and similar words mean the product made by the alcoholic and subsequent acetous fermentations, without distillation, of solutions of sugar, syrup, molasses, or refiners' syrup.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-691; 1964, c. 554; 1966, c. 702, ยง 3.1-900; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>