# ยง 4.1-349 Punishment for violations of title or regulations; bond.

<p>A. Any person convicted of a misdemeanor under the provisions of this subtitle without specification as to the class of offense or penalty, or convicted of violating any other provision thereof, or convicted of violating any Board regulation, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>B. In addition to the penalties imposed by this subtitle for violations, any court before whom any person is convicted of a violation of any provision of this subtitle may require such defendant to execute bond, with approved security, in the penalty of not more than $1,000, with the condition that the defendant will not violate any of the provisions of this subtitle for the term of one year. If any such bond is required and is not given, the defendant shall be committed to jail until it is given, or until he is discharged by the court, provided he shall not be confined for a period longer than six months. If any such bond required by a court is not given during the term of the court by which conviction is had, it may be given before any judge or before the clerk of such court.</p><p>C. The provisions of this subtitle shall not prevent the Board from suspending, revoking or refusing to continue the license of any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this subtitle.</p><p>D. No court shall hear such a case unless the respective attorney for the Commonwealth or his assistant has been notified that such a case is pending.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 4-92; 1984, c. 603; 1993, c. 866.</p>