# § 58.1-3245 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context clearly shows otherwise, the term or phrase:</p><p>"Base assessed value" means the assessed value of real estate within a development project area as shown upon the land book records of the local assessing officer on January 1 of the year preceding the effective date of the ordinance creating the development project area.</p><p>"Blighted area" means any area within the borders of a development project area which impairs economic values and tax revenues, causes an increase in and spread of disease and crime, and is a menace to the health, safety, morals and welfare of the citizens of the Commonwealth; or any area which endangers the public health, safety and welfare because commercial, industrial and residential structures are subject to dilapidation, deterioration, obsolescence, inadequate ventilation, inadequate public utilities and violations of minimum health and safety standards; or any area previously designated as a blighted area pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/36-48/'>36-48</a>; or any area adjacent to or in the immediate vicinity thereof which may be improved or enhanced in value by the placement of a proposed highway construction project.</p><p>"Current assessed value" means the annual assessed value of real estate in a development project area as recorded on the land book records of the local assessing officer.</p><p>"Development project area" means any area designated for development or redevelopment, including any area designated for a dredging project other than a dredging project for or by the Virginia Port Authority, unless the Virginia Port Authority has an agreement with a local governing body for local financial participation in such a project, in an ordinance passed by the local governing body.</p><p>"Development project cost" has the same meaning as the term "cost" in the Public Finance Act (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-2600/'>15.2-2600</a> et seq.) and, in the case of blighted areas, includes amounts paid to carry out the purposes described in § 144(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.</p><p>"Development project cost commitment" means a determination by the local governing body of payment of a sum specific of development project costs from the tax increment and other available funds in a development area.</p><p>"Governing body" means the board of supervisors, council or other legislative body of any county, city or town.</p><p>"Obligations" means bonds, general obligation bonds and revenue bonds as defined in § <a href='/vacode/15.2-2602/'>15.2-2602</a> of the Public Finance Act (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-2600/'>15.2-2600</a> et seq.), and any other form of indebtedness which the county, city or town may incur.</p><p>"Tax increment" means the amount by which the current assessed value of real estate exceeds the base assessed value.</p><p>1988, c. 776; 1989, c. 418; 1990, c. 296; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0667'>667</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0120'>120</a>.</p>