# ยง 58.1-439.20 Proposals to the State Board of Social Services; regulations; tax credits authorized.

<p>A. Any neighborhood organization may submit a proposal, other than education proposals which shall be applied for and allocated pursuant to the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-439.20:1/'>58.1-439.20:1</a>, to the Commissioner of Social Services requesting an allocation of tax credits for use by business firms making donations to the neighborhood organization.</p><p>The proposal shall set forth the program to be conducted by the neighborhood organization, the low-income persons to be assisted, the estimated amount to be donated to the program, and the plans for implementing the program.</p><p>B. 1. The State Board of Social Services is hereby authorized to adopt regulations for the approval or disapproval of such proposals by neighborhood organizations and for determining the value of the donations.</p><p>2. In order to be eligible to receive an allocation of tax credits pursuant to this article, a neighborhood organization shall have been in existence for at least one year. As a prerequisite for approval, neighborhood organizations with total revenues of (i) more than $100,000 shall provide to the Commissioner of Social Services an audit or review for the most recent year or (ii) $100,000 or less shall provide to the Commissioner of Social Services a compilation for the most recent year. Such audit, review, or compilation shall be performed by an independent certified public accountant. For purposes of this subdivision, "total revenues" means all revenues, including the value of all donations, for the organization's most recent year. No proposal for an allocation of tax credits shall be untimely filed solely because such audit, review, or compilation was not submitted by the neighborhood organization by the proposal filing deadline, provided that the audit, review, or compilation is submitted to the Commissioner of Social Services within the 30-day period immediately following such deadline.</p><p>3. In order to be eligible to receive an allocation of credits pursuant to this article, at least 50 percent of the persons served by the neighborhood organization shall be low-income persons, and at least 50 percent of the neighborhood organization's revenues shall be used to provide services to low-income persons.</p><p>4. In order for a proposal to be approved, an applicant neighborhood organization and any of its affiliates shall meet the requirements of this section and the application regulations.</p><p>However, beginning with tax credit allocations for fiscal year 2016-2017 and thereafter, such requirement for a proposal submitted by a neighborhood organization to the Commissioner of Social Services shall not apply in determining the eligibility of the neighborhood organization submitting a proposal, provided that (i) the neighborhood organization otherwise meets all statutory requirements and regulations, (ii) the neighborhood organization received a fiscal year 2013-2014 allocation of neighborhood assistance tax credits, and (iii) no affiliate of the neighborhood organization submits a proposal for or receives an allocation of tax credits pursuant to this article for the program year for which the neighborhood organization has submitted its proposal.</p><p>5. The regulations shall provide for the equitable allocation of the available amount of tax credits among the approved proposals submitted by neighborhood organizations. In allocating credits, the Commissioner of Social Services or the Superintendent of Public Instruction shall consider the past performance of neighborhood organizations that have received allocations of credits, including review of performance metrics, success in reaching targeted goals, or other measures of accountability that may be established by regulations or guidelines.</p><p>6. The regulations or guidelines shall provide that in any year in which the available amount of tax credits exceeds the previous year's available amount, at least 10 percent of the excess amount shall be allocated to qualified programs proposed by neighborhood organizations that did not receive any allocations in the preceding year. If the amount of tax credits requested by such neighborhood organizations is less than 10 percent of the excess amount, the unallocated portion of such 10 percent shall be allocated to qualified programs proposed by other neighborhood organizations.</p><p>C. 1. If the Commissioner of Social Services approves a proposal submitted by a neighborhood organization, the organization shall make the allocated tax credit amounts available to business firms making donations to the approved program. A neighborhood organization shall not assign or transfer an allocation of tax credits to another neighborhood organization without the approval of the Commissioner of Social Services.</p><p>2. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no more than an aggregate of $0.5 million in tax credits shall be approved in a fiscal year to a neighborhood organization or to a grouping of neighborhood organization affiliates for all other proposals combined.</p><p>3. If, after the initial allocation of credits to approved proposals, the State Department of Social Services has a balance of tax credits remaining for the fiscal year that can be used or allocated by a neighborhood organization for a proposal that had been approved for tax credits during the initial allocation, then the Commissioner of Social Services shall reallocate the remaining balance of tax credits to such previously approved proposals to the extent that a neighborhood organization can use or allocate additional tax credits for the previously approved proposal. The $0.5 million annual limitations for tax credits approved to a grouping of neighborhood organization affiliates shall be inapplicable for such reallocation of any balance of tax credits. The balance of tax credits remaining for reallocation shall include the amount of any tax credits that have been granted for a proposal approved during the initial allocation but for which the Commissioner of Social Services received notice from the neighborhood organization that it will not be able to use or allocate such amount for the approved proposal.</p><p>D. The total amount of tax credits granted for programs approved by the Commissioner of Social Services under this article for each fiscal year shall not exceed $8 million for fiscal year 2015-2016 and each fiscal year thereafter.</p><p>The Commissioner of Social Services shall work cooperatively with the Superintendent of Public Instruction for purposes of ensuring that neighborhood organization proposals are submitted to the proper state agency pursuant to this section and ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-439.20:1/'>58.1-439.20:1</a>. The Commissioner of Social Services may request the assistance of the Department of Taxation for purposes of determining whether or not anticipated donations for which tax credits are requested by a neighborhood organization likely qualify as a charitable donation under federal tax laws and regulations.</p><p>E. Actions of the State Department of Social Services, or the Commissioner of the same, relating to the review of neighborhood organization proposals and the allocation of tax credits to proposals shall be exempt from the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). Decisions of the State Department of Social Services, or the Commissioner of the same, shall be final and not subject to review or appeal.</p><p>2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0585'>585</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0010'>10</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0317'>317</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0731'>731</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0837'>837</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0842'>842</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0713'>713</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0802'>802</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0047'>47</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0189'>189</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0416'>416</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0426'>426</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0147'>147</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0723'>723</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0724'>724</a>.</p>