# ยง 36-11 Appointment and tenure of commissioners; compensation.

<p>When the need for an authority to be activated in a city or county has been determined in the manner prescribed by law, the governing body of the city or county shall appoint not more than nine or less than five persons as commissioners of the authority created for such city or county. The governing body of the city or county may subsequently increase the number of commissioners of the authority to a maximum of nine. The commissioners who are first appointed shall be designated to serve for terms of one, two, three, four and five years, respectively, from the date of their appointment, but thereafter commissioners shall be appointed as aforesaid for a term of office of four years except that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term. Notwithstanding any special or general law to the contrary, after July 1, 2017, no member of the Chesapeake Redevelopment and Housing Authority shall serve more than two consecutive terms. Any person who has served more than one and one-half terms as a member of the Chesapeake Redevelopment and Housing Authority as of July 1, 2017, shall not be eligible for reappointment for another consecutive term. A member of the Chesapeake Redevelopment and Housing Authority shall serve at the pleasure of the city council of the City of Chesapeake. No Chesapeake Redevelopment and Housing Authority member shall work for the Authority within one year after serving as a member. Except as may be otherwise expressly provided in the charter of a city or town specifically pertaining to such authority, no commissioner of any authority may be an officer or employee, of the city or county for which the authority is created. A commissioner shall hold office until his successor has been appointed and has qualified. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any commissioner shall be filed with the clerk and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of such commissioner. A commissioner may receive compensation as may be determined by a locality for each meeting of the authority attended by the commissioner. A commissioner shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including traveling expenses, incurred in the discharge of his duties.</p><p>Any exercise of the powers of an authority by its commissioners after June 30, 1968, otherwise in compliance with applicable law, is hereby declared to be valid and effective in all respects, notwithstanding that the number of commissioners exercising the powers, though not exceeding seven from July 1, 1968, through June 30, 1978, and not exceeding nine thereafter, may have exceeded the number appointed at the time the need for the authority to be activated had been determined in accordance with this section. No suit or action to vacate or set aside any exercise of said powers may be brought on the ground that the number of commissioners, though not exceeding seven from July 1, 1968, through June 30, 1978, and not exceeding nine thereafter, did exceed the number appointed at the time the need for the authority to be activated had been determined.</p><p>1938, p. 449; Michie Code 1942, ยง 3145(5); 1956, c. 615; 1958, c. 82; 1968, c. 696; 1978, c. 557; 1986, c. 357; 1987, c. 102; 1988, c. 601; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0247'>247</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0311'>311</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0541'>541</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0557'>557</a>.</p>