# § 54.1-1108.1 Waiver of examination; designated employee; Board regulations.

<p>A. Any Class A contractor licensed in the Commonwealth of Virginia prior to January 1, 1991, and in business on December 31, 1990, shall provide to the Board in writing the name of one full-time employee or member of the contractor's responsible management who is at least 18 years of age and that employee shall be deemed to have fulfilled the requirement for examination in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-1106/'>54.1-1106</a>, so long as he remains a full-time employee of the contractor or remains a member of the contractor's responsible management. The designated employee shall not be required to take an examination if the Class A contractor changes his form of business entity and is in good standing with the Board. Upon his leaving the employ of the contractor or his leaving as a member of the contractor's responsible management, the contractor shall name another full-time employee or member of the contractor's responsible management in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/54.1-1106/'>54.1-1106</a>.</p><p>Any Class B contractor registered in the Commonwealth prior to January 1, 1991, and in business on December 31, 1990, shall, within its current period of registration, provide on a form prescribed by the Board satisfactory information on the financial position, and knowledge, skills and abilities of the registered firm; and the name of a full-time employee who is at least 18 years of age and that employee shall be deemed to have fulfilled the requirement for examination in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-1108/'>54.1-1108</a>, so long as he remains a full-time employee of the contractor. The designated employee shall not be required to take an examination if the Class B contractor changes his form of business entity and is in good standing with the Board. If such employee leaves the employ of the contractor, the contractor shall name another full-time employee in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/54.1-1108/'>54.1-1108</a>.</p><p>B. 1. The Board is directed to revise Board regulations to allow multiple individuals from a single firm to sit for the business examination required to be confirmed as the firm's designated employee. The Board shall also review current regulations and procedures pertaining to the time allowed for a change of the designated employee to determine if the current time for replacement is sufficient and practicable.</p><p>2. As used in this subsection, "firm" means any business entity recognized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.</p><p>1990, c. 911; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0707'>707</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0892'>892</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0348'>348</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>.</p>