# ยง 32.1-349 Liability for excess payments.

<p>Any person who obtains benefits under this program to which he is not entitled shall be liable for any excess benefits received. If the recipient knew or reasonably should have known that he was not entitled to the excess benefits, he may also be liable for interest on the amount of the excess benefits at the judgment rate as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-302/'>6.2-302</a> from the date upon which he knew or reasonably should have known that he had received excess benefits to the date on which repayment is made to the Commonwealth. No person shall be liable for payment of interest, however, when excess benefits were obtained as a result of errors made solely by the Department of Medical Assistance Services or any local welfare or social services agency.</p><p>Any payment erroneously made on behalf of a recipient or former recipient of this program may be recovered by the Department of Medical Assistance Services from the recipient or the recipient's income, assets or estate unless such property is otherwise exempted by state or federal law or regulation.</p><p>Any person who, on behalf of himself or another, obtains or attempts to obtain the benefits of this program by means of (i) willful false statement, (ii) willful misrepresentation or concealment of a material fact, or (iii) any other fraudulent scheme or device shall be liable for repayment of any excess benefits received, plus interest on the amount of the excess benefits at the rate of 1.5 percent per month for the period from the date upon which payment was made for such benefits to the date on which repayment is made to the Commonwealth.</p><p>All civil penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited with the Comptroller for the State/Local Hospitalization Program in the same manner as the state and local shares.</p><p>1989, cc. 657, 746.</p>