# § 6.2-800 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Bank" means a corporation authorized by statute to accept deposits and to hold itself out to the public as engaged in the banking business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Bankers' bank" means a bank whose shares are owned exclusively by either (i) financial institutions that have or are eligible for insurance of deposits by a federal agency or (ii) financial institution holding companies as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-700/'>6.2-700</a> or savings institution holding companies as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1100/'>6.2-1100</a> owning any financial institution described in clause (i), provided that no such financial institution or holding company owns, directly or indirectly, more than five percent of the issued and outstanding voting shares of any bankers' bank.</p><p>"Bank holding company" means any corporation (i) that directly or indirectly owns, controls, or holds with power to vote, 25 percent or more of the voting shares of one or more banks or of a corporation that is or becomes a bank holding company by virtue of this definition, (ii) that controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of one or more banks, or (iii) for the benefit of whose shareholders or members 25 percent or more of the voting shares of one or more banks or bank holding companies is held by trustees. For the purpose of this definition, any successor to any such corporation shall be deemed to be a bank holding company from the date as of which such successor corporation becomes a bank holding company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (a) a bank shall not be a bank holding company by virtue of its ownership or control of shares in a fiduciary capacity except where such shares are held for the benefit of the shareholders of such banks, (b) a corporation shall not be a bank holding company by virtue of its ownership or control of its shares acquired by it in connection with its underwriting of securities and which are held only for such period of time as will permit the sale thereof upon a reasonable basis, (c) a corporation formed for the sole purpose of participating in a proxy solicitation shall not be a bank holding company by virtue of its control of voting rights or shares acquired in the course of such solicitation, and (d) a corporation shall not be a bank holding company if at least 80 percent of its total assets are composed of holdings in the field of agriculture.</p><p>"FDIC" means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.</p><p>"International banking facility" means a set of assets and liability accounts segregated on the books and records of the bank, or an adjacent or other subsidiary that includes only international banking facility time deposits and international banking facility extensions of credit. The facility may either be located within Virginia or outside the territorial United States. "International banking facility" has the meaning assigned to it by the laws of the United States or the regulations of the Board of Governors for the Federal Reserve System.</p><p>"State bank" means a bank incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth and that has its principal place of business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Trust business" has the meaning assigned to it in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1000/'>6.2-1000</a>.</p><p>"Trust company" has the meaning assigned to it in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1000/'>6.2-1000</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 6-6, 6-27.1, 6-66; 1962, c. 404; 1966, c. 584, §§ 6.1-4, 6.1-80; 1974, c. 665; 1982, c. 411; 1983, c. 453, § 6.1-11.2; 1987, c. 556; 1989, cc. 376, 650, § 6.1-6.1; 1993, cc. 182, 432; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0007'>7</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0218'>218</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0306'>306</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0633'>633</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>