# ยง 33.2-2220 Miscellaneous; penalties.

<p>A. Any action taken by the Commission under the provisions of this chapter may be authorized by resolution at any regular or special meeting, and each such resolution shall take effect immediately and need not be published or posted.</p><p>B. The project when constructed and opened to traffic shall be maintained and kept in good condition and repair by the Commission. The project shall also be policed and operated by such force of police, toll-collectors, and other operating employees as the Commission may in its discretion employ.</p><p>C. All other police officers of the Commonwealth and of each locality or political subdivision of the Commonwealth through which any project, or portion thereof, extends shall have the same powers and jurisdiction within the limits of such projects as they have beyond such limits and shall have access to the project at any time for the purpose of exercising such powers and jurisdiction.</p><p>D. All private property damaged or destroyed by the construction of the project or any part thereof shall be restored or repaired and placed in its original condition as nearly as practicable or adequate compensation made therefor out of funds provided under the authority of this chapter.</p><p>E. On or before the last day of February in each year, the Commission shall make an annual report of its activities during the preceding calendar year to the Governor. In each report, the Commission shall set forth a complete operating and financial statement covering its operations during the year. The Commission shall cause an audit of its books and accounts to be made at least once in each year by certified public accountants, and the cost thereof may be treated as a part of the cost of construction or operation of the project. The records, books, and accounts of the Commission shall be subject to examination and inspection by duly authorized representatives of the Governor, the Commonwealth Transportation Board, the governing bodies of the political subdivisions constituting the District, and any bondholder at any reasonable time, provided the business of the Commission is not unduly interrupted or interfered with by such action.</p><p>F. Any member, agent, or employee of the Commission who contracts with the Commission or District or is interested, either directly or indirectly, in any contract with the Commission or District or in the sale of any property, either real or personal, to the District shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or both.</p><p>G. Any person who uses the project and fails or refuses to pay the toll provided therefor shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both. In addition, the Commission shall have a lien upon the vehicle driven by such person for the amount of such toll and may take and retain possession thereof until the amount of such toll and all charges in connection therewith shall have been paid.</p><p>1956, c. 714; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>