# ยง 23.1-610.1 Veteran Student Transition Grant Fund and Program.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Veteran Student Transition Grant Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All funds appropriated for such purpose and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on its behalf shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of providing grants through the Veteran Student Transition Grant Program established pursuant to subsection B. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the director of the Council.</p><p>B. The Council shall establish the Veteran Student Transition Grant Program (the Program) for the purpose of providing grants through the Veteran Student Transition Grant Fund established in subsection A on a competitive basis to a public institution of higher education, private institution of higher education eligible to participate in the Tuition Assistance Grant Program pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-628/'>23.1-628</a>, or group of such institutions that proposes a new and innovative program or research project relating to improving the transition of veteran students from military to higher education or from higher education to the civilian workforce.</p><p>C. The Council shall administer the Program and shall establish such guidelines and procedures as it deems necessary for the administration of the Program, including guidelines and procedures for grant applications, awards, and renewals.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0636'>636</a>.</p>