# ยง 59.1-526 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter:</p><p>"Consumer transaction," "goods," and "services," have the same meanings as are set forth for those terms in ยง <a href='/vacode/59.1-198/'>59.1-198</a>.</p><p>"Disaster" means any "disaster," "emergency," or "major disaster," as those terms are used and defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/44-146.16/'>44-146.16</a>, that results in the declaration of a state of emergency by the Governor or the President of the United States.</p><p>"Necessary goods and services" means any necessary good or service for which consumer demand does, or is likely to, increase as a consequence of the disaster, and includes water, ice, consumer food items or supplies, property or services for emergency cleanup, emergency supplies, communication supplies and services, medical supplies and services, home heating fuel, building materials and services, tree removal supplies and services, freight, storage services, housing, lodging, transportation, and motor fuels.</p><p>"Supplier" means a seller, lessor, licensor, or professional who advertises, solicits, or engages in consumer transactions, or a manufacturer, distributor, or licensor who sells, leases, or licenses goods or services to be resold, leased, or sublicensed by other persons in consumer transactions. However, a manufacturer, distributor, or licensor who sells, leases, or licenses agricultural goods or services to be resold, leased, or sublicensed by other persons in consumer transactions shall not be considered a "supplier" unless such manufacturer, distributor, or licensor advertises such agricultural goods or services.</p><p>"Time of disaster" means the shorter of (i) the period of time when a state of emergency declared by the Governor or the President of the United States as the result of a disaster, emergency, or major disaster, as those terms are used and defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/44-146.16/'>44-146.16</a>, is in effect or (ii) 30 days after the occurrence of the disaster, emergency, or major disaster that resulted in the declaration of the state of emergency; however, if the state of emergency is extended or renewed within 30 days after such an occurrence, then such period shall be extended to include the 30 days following the date the state of emergency was extended or renewed.</p><p>2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0798'>798</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0817'>817</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0362'>362</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0121'>121</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0157'>157</a>; 2020, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0016'>16</a>.</p>