# § 46.2-1549.1 Dealer's promotional license plates.

<p>In addition to any other license plate authorized by this article, the Commissioner may issue permanent or temporary dealer's promotional license plates to a dealer for use on vehicles held for sale or resale in the dealer's inventory. The design of these license plates shall be at the discretion of the Commissioner. These license plates shall be for use as authorized by the Commissioner. These plates shall be issued under the following conditions:</p><p>1. For each permanent promotional license plate issued or renewed, the Commissioner shall charge an annual fee of $100. Issuance of license plates pursuant to this subdivision shall be subject to the insurance requirement contained in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1547/'>46.2-1547</a>. The Commissioner shall limit the validity of any license plate issued under this subdivision to no more than thirty consecutive days. Upon written request from the dealership, the Commissioner may consider an extended use of a license plate issued under this subdivision. The Commissioner's authorization for use of any license plate issued under this subdivision shall be kept in the vehicle on which the license plate is displayed until expiration of the authorization. These license plates shall be included in the number of dealer's license plates authorized under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1546/'>46.2-1546</a> and not in addition thereto.</p><p>2. The Commissioner shall limit the validity of each temporary promotional license plate to no more than fourteen consecutive days. For each request, the Commissioner shall charge a fee of twenty-five dollars for the first plate and two dollars for each additional plate. Issuance of license plates pursuant to this subdivision shall be subject to the insurance requirement contained in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1547/'>46.2-1547</a>. The Commissioner's authorization for use of any license plate issued under this subdivision shall be kept in the vehicle on which the license plate is displayed until expiration of the authorization. License plates issued under this subdivision shall not be included in the number of dealer's license plates authorized under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1546/'>46.2-1546</a>.</p><p>1991, c. 712; 1994, 1st Sp. Sess., c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?942+ful+CHAP0006'>6</a>.</p>