# ยง 32.1-73.9 Advisory Council on Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal Infections and Pediatric Acute-onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome; membership.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the executive branch of state government the Advisory Council on Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal Infections and Pediatric Acute-onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome (the Advisory Council), for the purpose of advising the Commissioner of Health on research, diagnosis, treatment, and education relating to pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome.</p><p>B. The Advisory Council shall have a total membership of 16 members that shall consist of six legislative members, nine nonlegislative citizen members, and one ex officio member. Members shall be appointed as follows: four members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; two members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and the following nine nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor: one licensed health care provider who has expertise in treating persons with pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome and autism; one pediatrician who has experience treating persons with pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome; one child psychiatrist who has experience treating persons with pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome; one immunologist with experience in treating persons with pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome and the use of intravenous immunoglobulin; one medical researcher with experience conducting research concerning pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome, obsessive-compulsive disorder, tic disorder, and other neurological disorders; one representative of a professional organization for school nurses in the Commonwealth; one representative of an advocacy and support group for individuals affected by pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome; one representative of an advocacy and support group for individuals affected by autism; and one parent of a child who has been diagnosed with pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections and pediatric acute-onset neuropsychiatric syndrome and autism. The Commissioner of Health or his designee shall serve ex officio without voting privileges. Nonlegislative members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>Legislative members and the ex officio member of the Advisory Council shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative members shall be appointed for terms of two years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed.</p><p>C. Legislative members of the Advisory Council shall receive such compensation as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>. Nonlegislative members shall serve without compensation or reimbursement.</p><p>D. The Advisory Council shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman annually from among its legislative membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The Advisory Council shall meet at such times as may be called by the chairman or a majority of the Advisory Council.</p><p>E. Staff to the Advisory Council shall be provided by the Department of Health. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall provide assistance to the Advisory Council, upon request.</p><p>2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0466'>466</a>.</p>