# § 58.1-396 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise:</p><p>"Administrative adjustment request" means an administrative adjustment request filed by a partnership pursuant to § 6227 of the Internal Revenue Code.</p><p>"Audited partnership" means a partnership subject to a partnership-level audit that results in a federal adjustment.</p><p>"Corporate partner" means a partner that is subject to tax under Article 10 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-400/'>58.1-400</a> et seq.).</p><p>"Direct" means, with respect to a partner, that such partner holds a direct interest in a partnership or a pass-through entity and that such interest is not held indirectly through another partnership or pass-through entity.</p><p>"Exempt" means, with respect to a partner, that such partner is exempt from Virginia income taxation. If such partner has unrelated business taxable income but otherwise is exempt from Virginia income taxation, such partner shall considered exempt.</p><p>"Federal adjustment" means a change to an item or amount determined under the Internal Revenue Code that is used by a taxpayer to compute Virginia tax owed, regardless of whether that change results from an action by the Internal Revenue Service including a partnership-level audit, or the filing of an amended federal return, federal refund claim, or administrative adjustment request by the taxpayer. A federal adjustment is positive to the extent that it increases Virginia taxable income and is negative to the extent that it decreases Virginia taxable income.</p><p>"Federal adjustments report" means any methods or forms required by the Department for use by a partner or partnership to report final federal adjustments.</p><p>"Federal partnership representative" means the person that a partnership designates for the taxable year as its representative or the person that the Internal Revenue Service appoints pursuant to § 6223(a) of the Internal Revenue Code to act as the federal partnership representative.</p><p>"Final determination date" means the date determined pursuant to the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-311.2/'>58.1-311.2</a>.</p><p>"Final federal adjustment" means a federal adjustment for which the final determination date has passed.</p><p>"Indirect" means, with respect to a partner, that such partner does not hold a direct interest in a partnership or pass-through entity but instead holds a direct interest in another partnership or pass-through entity that itself holds an interest directly, or through another indirect partner, in the partnership or pass-through entity.</p><p>"Nonresident" means, with respect to an individual, estate, or trust partner, that such partner is not a resident partner.</p><p>"Partner" means a person that holds an interest directly or indirectly in a partnership or pass-through entity.</p><p>"Partnership" means an entity subject to taxation under Subchapter K, 26 U.S.C. § 701 et seq., of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code.</p><p>"Partnership-level audit" means an examination by the Internal Revenue Service at the partnership level pursuant to Subchapter C, 26 U.S.C. § 6221 et seq., of Chapter 63 of Subtitle F of the Internal Revenue Code that results in federal adjustments.</p><p>"Pass-through entity" means any pass-through entity as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-390.1/'>58.1-390.1</a>, other than a partnership as defined in this section.</p><p>"Resident" means, with respect to an individual partner, that such partner is a resident, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-302/'>58.1-302</a>, for the relevant tax period. "Resident" means, with respect to an estate or trust partner, that such partner is a resident estate or trust, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-302/'>58.1-302</a>, for the relevant tax period.</p><p>"Reviewed year" means the taxable year of a partnership that is subject to a partnership-level audit from which federal adjustments arise.</p><p>"State partnership representative" means the person identified as the representative of a partnership pursuant to the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-398/'>58.1-398</a>.</p><p>"Tiered partner" means any partner that is a partnership or a pass-through entity and is not an individual.</p><p>"Unrelated business taxable income" has the same meaning as such term is defined in § 512 of the Internal Revenue Code.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1030'>1030</a>.</p>