# § 13.1-740 Court action.

<p>A. If a shareholder makes a demand for payment under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-739/'>13.1-739</a> that remains unsettled, the corporation shall commence a proceeding within 60 days after receiving the payment demand and petition the court to determine the fair value of the shares and accrued interest. If the corporation does not commence the proceeding within the 60-day period, it shall pay in cash to each shareholder the amount the shareholder demanded pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-737/'>13.1-737</a> plus interest.</p><p>B. The corporation shall commence the proceeding in the circuit court of the city or county where the corporation's principal office, or, if none in the Commonwealth, where its registered office, is located. If the corporation is a foreign corporation without a registered office in the Commonwealth, it shall commence the proceeding in the circuit court of the city or county in the Commonwealth where the principal office, or, if none in the Commonwealth, where the registered office of the domestic corporation merged with the foreign corporation was located at the time the transaction became effective.</p><p>C. The corporation shall make all shareholders, regardless of whether they are residents of the Commonwealth, whose demands remain unsettled parties to the proceeding as in an action against their shares, and all parties shall be served with a copy of the petition. Nonresidents may be served by registered or certified mail or by publication as provided by law.</p><p>D. The corporation may join as a party to the proceeding any shareholder who claims to have demanded an appraisal but who has not, in the opinion of the corporation, complied with the provisions of this article. If the court determines that a shareholder has not complied with the provisions of this article, that shareholder shall be dismissed as a party.</p><p>E. The jurisdiction of the court in which the proceeding is commenced under subsection B is plenary and exclusive. The court may appoint one or more persons as appraisers to receive evidence and recommend a decision on the question of fair value. The appraisers shall have the powers described in the order appointing them, or in any amendment to it. The shareholders demanding appraisal rights are entitled to the same discovery rights as parties in other civil proceedings. There shall be no right to a jury trial.</p><p>F. Each shareholder made a party to the proceeding is entitled to judgment (i) for the amount, if any, by which the court finds the fair value of the shareholder's shares exceeds the amount paid by the corporation to the shareholder for such shares, plus interest or (ii) for the fair value plus interest of the shareholder's shares for which the corporation elected to withhold payment under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-738/'>13.1-738</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 13-85, 13.1-75, 13.1-78; 1956, c. 428; 1968, c. 733; 1972, c. 425; 1975, c. 500; 1984, c. 613; 1985, c. 522; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>.</p>