# ยง 36-45 Commissioners of regional housing authority.

<p>The board of supervisors of each county included in a regional housing authority shall appoint one person as a commissioner of such authority, and each such commissioner to be first appointed by the board of supervisors of a county may be appointed at or after the time of the adoption of the resolution declaring the need for such regional housing authority or declaring the need for the inclusion of such county in the area of operation of such regional housing authority. When the area of operation of a regional housing authority is increased to include an additional county or counties as provided above, the board of supervisors of each such county shall thereupon appoint one additional person as a commissioner of the regional housing authority. The board of supervisors of each county shall appoint the successor of the commissioner appointed by it. A certificate of the appointment of any such commissioner shall be filed with the clerk of the county, and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of such commissioner. If any county is excluded from the area of operation of a regional housing authority, the office of the commissioner of such regional housing authority appointed by the board of supervisors of such county shall be thereupon abolished.</p><p>If a regional housing authority consists of only two counties, the boards of supervisors may agree to appoint two members each as commissioners of such authority. However, if the regional housing authority is changed to consist of three or more counties, the counties shall thereafter appoint one member each as a commissioner.</p><p>If the area of operation of a regional housing authority consists at any time of an even number of counties, the commissioners of the regional housing authority appointed by the boards of supervisors of such counties shall appoint one additional commissioner whose term of office shall be as herein provided for a commissioner of a regional housing authority except that such term shall end at any earlier time that the area of operation of the regional housing authority shall be changed to consist of an odd number of counties. The commissioners of such authority appointed by the boards of supervisors of such counties shall likewise appoint each person to succeed such additional commissioner; provided that the term of office of such person begins during the terms of office of the commissioners appointing him. A certificate of the appointment of any such additional commissioner of such regional housing authority shall be filed with the other records of the regional housing authority and shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of such additional commissioner.</p><p>When a regional housing authority is required by federal housing law to appoint a commissioner satisfying the criteria specified in Section 2 (b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, at least one but not more than two such commissioners shall be appointed by the commissioners of the regional housing authority. The executive director of the regional housing authority shall prepare a slate of eligible candidates for appointment for the commissioners' consideration. However, the appointing commissioners shall not be required to make appointments from such slate. The term of such appointed commissioner shall be as herein provided for a commissioner of a regional housing authority. A certificate of the appointment of any such commissioner of a regional housing authority shall be filed with the other records of the regional housing authority and shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of such commissioner.</p><p>The commissioners of a regional housing authority shall be appointed for terms of four years except that all vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. Each commissioner shall hold office until his successor has been appointed and has qualified, except as otherwise provided herein.</p><p>The commissioners shall constitute the regional housing authority, and the powers of such authority shall be vested in such commissioners in office from time to time.</p><p>The commissioners of a regional housing authority shall elect a chairman from among the commissioners and shall have power to select or employ such other officers and employees as the regional housing authority may require. A majority of the commissioners of a regional housing authority shall constitute a quorum of such authority for the purpose of conducting its business and exercising its powers and for all other purposes.</p><p>For inefficiency or neglect of duty or misconduct in office, a commissioner of a regional housing authority may be removed by the board of supervisors appointing him, or in the case of the commissioner appointed by the commissioners of the regional housing authority, by such commissioners; provided that such commissioner shall be removed only after he shall have been given a copy of the charges against him at least 10 days prior to the hearing thereon and had an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel. In the event of the removal of a commissioner by the board of supervisors appointing him, a record of the proceedings, together with the charges and findings thereon, shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the county; and in the case of the removal of the commissioner appointed by the commissioners of the regional housing authority, such record shall be filed with the other records of the regional housing authority.</p><p>1942, p. 321; Michie Code 1942, ยง 3145(4f); 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0417'>417</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0535'>535</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0559'>559</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0809'>809</a>.</p>