# ยง 28.2-601 Riparian assignments; entitlements; obligations.

<p>The riparian leaseholder shall have the exclusive right to the use of such ground for planting or gathering oysters and clams.</p><p>The assignment made pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-600/'>28.2-600</a> shall pass with the transfer of the adjacent highland to the subsequent owner of highland and cannot be held separated from the highland. A transfer of highland ownership shall require a transfer of the riparian assignment within eighteen months after the transfer of the highland ownership under the following conditions:</p><p>1. The application for transfer shall be in the form prescribed by the Commission and shall be filed with the Commissioner.</p><p>2. The Commissioner shall require a new survey if there is not a survey of the exact parcel or parcels of grounds to be transferred.</p><p>3. The cost of any new surveys required under this section shall be borne by the person making the transfer, and the cost and fees shall be the same as for surveys of general oyster-planting ground.</p><p>4. The application shall be accompanied by a transfer fee of five dollars.</p><p>5. The Commissioner shall return the approved application for transfer and plat with any correction to the applicant. A copy of the transfer and plat shall be recorded at the Commissioner's office.</p><p>6. If no application for transfer is received by the Commissioner within eighteen months after the transfer of the highland ownership, the riparian assignment shall become vacant and open to assignment.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-123; 1950, p. 987; 1956, c. 586; 1958, c. 184; 1960, c. 517; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-108; 1964, c. 393; 1968, c. 747; 1972, c. 644; 1976, c. 256; 1978, c. 548; 1984, cc. 100, 244, 259; 1986, c. 168; 1992, c. 836.</p>