# ยง 46.2-2143 Surety bonds, insurance, letter of credit or securities required prior to issuance of registration.

<p>No certificate of fitness, permit, registration card, or license plate shall be issued by the Department to any motor carrier or for any vehicle operated by or on behalf of a motor carrier until the motor carrier certifies to the Department that the vehicle is covered by one or more of the following, in the amount or amounts set forth in ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-2143.1/'>46.2-2143.1</a>:</p><p>1. An insurance policy or bond;</p><p>2. A certificate of insurance in lieu of the insurance policy or bond, certifying that such policy or bond covers the liability of such motor carrier in accordance with the provisions of this article, is issued by an authorized insurer, or in the case of bonds, is in an amount approved by the Department. The bonds may be issued by the Commonwealth of Virginia, the United States of America, or any municipality in the Commonwealth. Such bonds shall be deposited with the State Treasurer and the surety shall not be reduced except in accordance with an order of the Department;</p><p>3. An unconditional letter of credit, issued by a bank doing business in Virginia, for an amount approved by the Department. The letter of credit shall be in effect so long as the motor carrier operates motor vehicles in the Commonwealth; or</p><p>4. In the case of a lessor who acts as a registrant for purposes of consolidating lessees' vehicle registration applications, a statement that the registrant has, before leasing a vehicle, obtained from the lessee an insurance policy, bond, or certificate of insurance in lieu of the insurance policy or bond and can make available said proof of insurance coverage upon demand.</p><p>Vehicles belonging to carriers who have filed proof of financial responsibility in accordance with the unified carrier registration system authorized by 49 U.S.C. ยง 14504a are deemed to have fulfilled the requirements of this article for insurance purposes. The Department is further authorized to register any qualified carrier under the unified carrier registration system as well as to collect and disperse the fees for registration under that system.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596'>596</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0208'>208</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0889'>889</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0638'>638</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0790'>790</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0815'>815</a>.</p>