# ยง 6.2-1904.1 Investigation of applications.

<p>A. The Commissioner may make such investigations as he deems necessary to determine if the applicant has complied with all applicable provisions of law and regulations adopted thereunder.</p><p>B. For the purpose of investigating individuals who are members, senior officers, directors, and principals of an applicant, such individuals shall comply with one or both of the following, as applicable:</p><p>1. In the case of members, senior officers, directors, and principals who have resided in the United States at any time within the previous 10 years, such individuals shall consent to a national and state criminal history records check and submit to fingerprinting. Each member, senior officer, director, and principal shall pay for the cost of such fingerprinting and criminal records check. Such individuals shall cause their fingerprints, personal descriptive information, and records check fees to be submitted to either of the following, as prescribed by the Commissioner:</p><p>a. The Bureau, which shall forward these items to the Central Criminal Records Exchange. The Central Criminal Records Exchange shall (i) conduct a search of its own criminal history records and forward such individuals' fingerprints and personal descriptive information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the purpose of obtaining national criminal history record information regarding such individuals and (ii) forward the results of the state and national records search to the Commissioner or his designee, who shall be an employee of the Commission; or</p><p>b. The Registry, provided that it is capable of processing such criminal history records check.</p><p>2. In the case of members, senior officers, directors, and principals who have resided outside of the United States at any time within the previous 10 years, such individuals shall cause an investigative background report to be submitted to the Commissioner. The report shall be prepared by an independent search firm that is acceptable to the Commissioner and be in the English language. Each member, senior officer, director, and principal shall pay for the cost of such report, and the report shall be sent directly by the search firm to the Commissioner or his designee, who shall be an employee of the Commission.</p><p>C. If any member, senior officer, director, or principal of an applicant fails to cause his fingerprints, personal descriptive information, records check fees, or investigative background report to be submitted in accordance with subsection B, the application for licensure shall be denied.</p><p>2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0454'>454</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0634'>634</a>.</p>