# § 58.1-1008 Monthly reports of stamping agents; penalty.

<p>In addition to the reporting requirements imposed by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1003/'>58.1-1003</a>, every stamping agent qualifying as such with the Department shall be required to file a report between the first and twentieth of each month, covering the purchase or receipt by them of all cigarettes during the preceding month. The report shall give in detail the different kinds and quantities of cigarettes so purchased or received by them during the preceding month. The report shall also list all orders for cigarettes purchased through such wholesale dealer from without this Commonwealth on a drop shipment and consigned direct to the person ordering such cigarettes through such stamping agent. The Department may allow such reports to be filed electronically. If, upon examination of invoices of any stamping agent, such agent is unable to furnish evidence to the Department of sufficient stamp purchases to cover unstamped cigarettes purchased by him, the prima facie presumption shall arise that such cigarettes were sold without the proper stamps affixed thereto in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1003/'>58.1-1003</a>. The Department may impose a penalty of $250, to be assessed and collected by the Department as other taxes are collected, on any stamping agent for each failure or refusal to file the report, or portion thereof, required by this section or by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4209/'>3.2-4209</a> in the manner and time allowed. The Department may revoke a stamping permit for up to one year if the stamping agent fails to file more than one of the required reports in a timely manner in any calendar year. After such time, the stamping agent must reapply to the Department for a stamping permit. The Department may also impose a penalty, to be assessed and collected by the Department as other taxes are collected, of $250 per pack of cigarettes on any person found to be selling cigarettes in Virginia after his stamping permit has been revoked. Each pack of cigarettes sold shall be considered a separate offense. Where willful intent exists, as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1013/'>58.1-1013</a>, the penalty shall be $2,500 per pack.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 58-757.2, 58-757.7; 1960, c. 392, §§ 2, 7; 1962, c. 473; 1984, c. 675; 1992, c. 763; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0381'>381</a>.</p>