# ยง 36-99.3 Smoke alarms and automatic sprinkler systems in institutions of higher education.

<p>A. Buildings at institutions of higher education that contain dormitories for sleeping purposes shall be provided with battery operated or AC powered smoke alarm devices installed therein in accordance with the Building Code. All dormitories at public institutions of higher education and private institutions of higher education shall have installed and use due diligence in maintaining in good working order such alarms regardless of when the building was constructed.</p><p>B. The Board of Housing and Community Development shall promulgate regulations pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4011/'>2.2-4011</a> establishing standards for automatic sprinkler systems throughout all buildings at private institutions of higher education and public institutions of higher education that are (i) more than 75 feet or more than six stories high and (ii) used, in whole or in part, as dormitories to house students. Such buildings shall be equipped with automatic sprinkler systems by September 1, 1999, regardless of when such buildings were constructed.</p><p>C. The chief administrative office of the institution of higher education shall obtain a certificate of compliance with the provisions of this section from the building official of the locality in which the institution of higher education is located or, in the case of state-owned buildings, from the Director of the Department of General Services.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any dormitory at a military public institution of higher education that is patrolled 24 hours a day by military guards.</p><p>1982, c. 357; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0584'>584</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0041'>41</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0081'>81</a>.</p>