# ยง 58.1-3520 Local permits required before moving a manufactured home to the place where it is to be used as a place of residence; payment of property taxes before moving manufactured homes.

<p>No manufactured home, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-85.3/'>36-85.3</a>, intended for use as a full-time place of residence shall be delivered to or located upon the lot or parcel of real estate where the manufactured home will be used as a place of residence until the necessary permits for connection to water and sewer outlets have been secured, or if there be no existing water and sewer outlets, until permits for a well and septic system have been acquired from the local health departments.</p><p>The owner of any manufactured home moving the manufactured home into a county, city or town for use rather than for sale shall within ten days after moving the manufactured home notify the commissioner of revenue or director of finance of the county, city or town of his name, address and description and location of the manufactured home. No manufactured home which has been in use as a place of residence shall be moved from the county, city or town wherein it has been in use, until the owner thereof has obtained a tax permit from the treasurer of the county or city. Such permits shall be supplied to the treasurers by the Department of Taxation. The treasurer shall not issue a tax permit until such owner has paid to the city or county and town all local property taxes assessed or assessable against the manufactured home. The permit shall expire in forty-five days and shall be conspicuously displayed on the left center of the rear of the manufactured home at all times when such manufactured home is being transported. The seller of a manufactured home subject to the provisions of this section shall deliver a copy of this section of the Code of Virginia to the purchaser at the time of the sale.</p><p>Any dealer in manufactured homes or any party having a secured interest in a particular manufactured home may use dealer plates as authorized in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1550/'>46.2-1550</a> in lieu of the tax permit required hereunder. Any such dealer or secured party who removes a manufactured home from a county or city on account of repossession or other operation of law shall notify the treasurer thereof before such removal.</p><p>The violation of this section shall constitute a Class 3 misdemeanor and be punishable as such.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-766.3; 1974, c. 426; 1982, c. 617; 1984, c. 675; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0152'>152</a>.</p>