# § 3.2-1806 Management of referenda; Commissioner's duties; notice.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall arrange for and manage any referendum conducted pursuant to this article.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall, at least 60 days before the referendum is to be held, mail notice to the clerk of the circuit court in each locality where producers are located.</p><p>The clerk of the circuit court shall post the notice and the regulations on the front door or public bulletin board of the courthouse and certify the posting to the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall give notice of the referendum in a newspaper of general circulation in Richmond, Virginia, and shall send a notice of the referendum to a newspaper of general circulation in each locality where producers are located at least 60 days prior to the holding of any referendum pursuant to the provisions of this article. The notice shall contain the date, hours, voting places, and method of voting in the referendum, the amount of tax to be collected, the means by which the tax shall be collected, the general purposes for how the taxes will be used, and the regulations adopted by the Board hereunder.</p><p>C. The Commissioner, with the assistance of the petitioners, shall prepare and distribute in advance of the referendum all necessary ballots and supplies required for the referendum and shall under regulations adopted by the Board and with the assistance of the petitioners and the Extension Service arrange for the necessary polling places.</p><p>D. The Commissioner shall, within 10 days after the referendum, canvass and publicly declare the results thereof and certify the same to the Governor and the Board.</p><p>1982, c. 126, §§ 3.1-684.23, 3.1-684.26, 3.1-684.27; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>