# § 63.2-1720 Assisted living facilities and adult day care centers.

<p>A. No assisted living facility or adult day care center shall hire for compensated employment or continue to employ persons who have been convicted of any offense set forth in clause (i) of the definition of barrier crime in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-392.02/'>19.2-392.02</a>. A child-placing agency or independent foster home licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall not hire for compensated employment or continue to employ persons who (i) have been convicted of any barrier crime as defined in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-392.02/'>19.2-392.02</a> or (ii) are the subject of a founded complaint of child abuse or neglect within or outside the Commonwealth. All applicants for employment shall undergo background checks pursuant to subsection C.</p><p>B. A licensed assisted living facility or adult day care center may hire an applicant or continue to employ a person convicted of one misdemeanor barrier crime not involving abuse or neglect, or any substantially similar offense under the laws of another jurisdiction, if five years have elapsed following the conviction.</p><p>C. Background checks pursuant to subsection A require:</p><p>1. A sworn statement or affirmation disclosing whether the person has a criminal conviction or is the subject of any pending criminal charges within or outside the Commonwealth and, in the case of licensed child-placing agencies or independent foster homes, whether or not the person has been the subject of a founded complaint of child abuse or neglect within or outside the Commonwealth;</p><p>2. A criminal history records check through the Central Criminal Records Exchange pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-389/'>19.2-389</a>; and</p><p>3. In the case of licensed child-placing agencies or independent foster homes, a search of the central registry maintained pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/63.2-1515/'>63.2-1515</a> for any founded complaint of child abuse and neglect.</p><p>D. Any person making a materially false statement regarding the sworn statement or affirmation provided pursuant to subdivision C 1 is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>E. A licensed assisted living facility, licensed adult day care center, licensed child-placing agency, or licensed independent foster home shall obtain for any compensated employees within 30 days of employment (i) an original criminal record clearance with respect to convictions for any offense set forth in clause (i) of the definition of barrier crime in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-392.02/'>19.2-392.02</a> or an original criminal history record from the Central Criminal Records Exchange and (ii) in the case of licensed child-placing agencies or independent foster homes, (a) an original criminal record clearance with respect to any barrier crime as defined in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-392.02/'>19.2-392.02</a> or an original criminal history record from the Central Criminal Records Exchange and (b) a copy of the information from the central registry for any compensated employee within 30 days of employment. However, no employee shall be permitted to work in a position that involves direct contact with a person or child receiving services until an original criminal record clearance or original criminal history record has been received, unless such person works under the direct supervision of another employee for whom a background check has been completed in accordance with the requirements of this section. If an applicant is denied employment because of information from the central registry or convictions appearing on his criminal history record, the licensed assisted living facility, adult day care center, child-placing agency, or independent foster home shall provide a copy of the information obtained from the central registry or the Central Criminal Records Exchange or both to the applicant.</p><p>F. No volunteer who (i) has been convicted of any barrier crime as defined in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-392.02/'>19.2-392.02</a> or (ii) is the subject of a founded complaint of child abuse or neglect within or outside the Commonwealth shall be permitted to serve in a licensed child-placing agency or independent foster home. Any person desiring to volunteer at a licensed child-placing agency or independent foster home shall provide the agency, system, or home with a sworn statement or affirmation pursuant to subdivision C 1. Such licensed child-placing agency or independent foster home shall obtain for any volunteers, within 30 days of commencement of volunteer service, a copy of (a) the information from the central registry and (b) an original criminal record clearance with respect to any barrier crime as defined in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-392.02/'>19.2-392.02</a> or an original criminal history record from the Central Criminal Records Exchange. Any person making a materially false statement regarding the sworn statement or affirmation provided pursuant to subdivision C 1 is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. If a volunteer is denied service because of information from the central registry or convictions appearing on his criminal history record, such licensed child-placing agency or independent foster home shall provide a copy of the information obtained from the central registry or the Central Criminal Records Exchange or both to the volunteer. The provisions of this subsection shall apply only to volunteers who will be alone with any child in the performance of their duties and shall not apply to a parent-volunteer of a child attending a licensed child-placing agency or independent foster home, whether or not such parent-volunteer will be alone with any child in the performance of his duties. A parent-volunteer is someone supervising, without pay, a group of children that includes the parent-volunteer's own child in a program that operates no more than four hours per day, provided that the parent-volunteer works under the direct supervision of a person who has received a clearance pursuant to this section.</p><p>G. No volunteer shall be permitted to serve in a licensed assisted living facility or licensed adult day care center without the permission or under the supervision of a person who has received a clearance pursuant to this section.</p><p>H. Further dissemination of the background check information is prohibited other than to the Commissioner's representative or a federal or state authority or court as may be required to comply with an express requirement of law for such further dissemination.</p><p>I. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a licensed adult day care center that provides services to individuals receiving services under the state plan for medical assistance services or any waiver thereto may disclose to the Department of Medical Assistance Services (i) whether a criminal history background check has been completed for an employee in accordance with this section and (ii) whether such employee is eligible for employment.</p><p>J. A licensed assisted living facility shall notify and provide all students a copy of the provisions of this article prior to or upon enrollment in a certified nurse aide program operated by such assisted living facility.</p><p>K. A person who complies in good faith with the provisions of this section shall not be liable for any civil damages for any act or omission in the performance of duties under this section unless the act or omission was the result of gross negligence or willful misconduct.</p><p>1985, c. 360, § 63.1-198.1; 1986, cc. 300, 627; 1987, cc. 130, 131, 692, 693; 1992, cc. 746, 844, §§ 63.1-173.2, 63.1-194.13; 1993, cc. 17, 657, 730, 742, 957, 993; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0581'>581</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0637'>637</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0740'>740</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0778'>778</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0723'>723</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0764'>764</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0129'>129</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0770'>770</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0632'>632</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0189'>189</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0201'>201</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0751'>751</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0809'>809</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0089'>89</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861'>861</a>.</p>