# § 54.1-3505 Specific powers and duties of the Board.

<p>In addition to the powers granted in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2400/'>54.1-2400</a>, the Board shall have the following specific powers and duties:</p><p>1. To cooperate with and maintain a close liaison with other professional boards and the community to ensure that regulatory systems stay abreast of community and professional needs.</p><p>2. To conduct inspections to ensure that licensees conduct their practices in a competent manner and in conformance with the relevant regulations.</p><p>3. To designate specialties within the profession.</p><p>4. To administer the certification of rehabilitation providers pursuant to Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-3510/'>54.1-3510</a> et seq.) of this chapter, including prescribing fees for application processing, examinations, certification and certification renewal.</p><p>5. [Expired.]</p><p>6. To promulgate regulations for the qualifications, education, and experience for licensure of marriage and family therapists. The requirements for clinical membership in the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy (AAMFT), and the professional examination service's national marriage and family therapy examination may be considered by the Board in the promulgation of these regulations. The educational credit hour, clinical experience hour, and clinical supervision hour requirements for marriage and family therapists shall not be less than the educational credit hour, clinical experience hour, and clinical supervision hour requirements for professional counselors.</p><p>7. To promulgate, subject to the requirements of Article 1.1 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-3507/'>54.1-3507</a> et seq.) of this chapter, regulations for the qualifications, education, and experience for licensure of licensed substance abuse treatment practitioners and certification of certified substance abuse counselors and certified substance abuse counseling assistants. The requirements for membership in NAADAC: the Association for Addiction Professionals and its national examination may be considered by the Board in the promulgation of these regulations. The Board also may provide for the consideration and use of the accreditation and examination services offered by the Substance Abuse Certification Alliance of Virginia. The educational credit hour, clinical experience hour, and clinical supervision hour requirements for licensed substance abuse treatment practitioners shall not be less than the educational credit hour, clinical experience hour, and clinical supervision hour requirements for licensed professional counselors. Such regulations also shall establish standards and protocols for the clinical supervision of certified substance abuse counselors and the supervision or direction of certified substance abuse counseling assistants, and reasonable access to the persons providing that supervision or direction in settings other than a licensed facility.</p><p>8. To maintain a registry of persons who meet the requirements for supervision of residents. The Board shall make the registry of approved supervisors available to persons seeking residence status.</p><p>9. To promulgate regulations for the registration of qualified mental health professionals, including qualifications, education, and experience necessary for such registration, and for the registration of persons receiving supervised training in order to qualify as a qualified mental health professional.</p><p>10. To promulgate regulations for the registration of peer recovery specialists who meet the qualifications, education, and experience requirements established by regulations of the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/37.2-203/'>37.2-203</a>.</p><p>11. To promulgate regulations for the issuance of temporary licenses to individuals engaged in a counseling residency so that they may acquire the supervised, postgraduate experience required for licensure.</p><p>1976, c. 608, §§ 54-929, 54-931; 1983, c. 115; 1986, cc. 64, 100, 464; 1988, c. 765; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0558'>558</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0778'>778</a>; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0820'>820</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0901'>901</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0460'>460</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0264'>264</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0426'>426</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0101'>101</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0217'>217</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0428'>428</a>.</p>