# ยง 15.2-5702 Creation of authorities.

<p>A. A locality may by ordinance or resolution, or two or more localities may by concurrent ordinances or resolutions, signify their intention to create a park authority, under an appropriate name and title, containing the word "authority" which shall be a body politic and corporate.</p><p>Whenever an authority has been incorporated by two or more localities, any one or more of the localities may withdraw therefrom, but no locality shall be permitted to withdraw from any authority that has outstanding obligations unless United States securities have been deposited for their payment or without unanimous consent of all holders of the outstanding obligations.</p><p>Other localities may join the authority as provided in the ordinances or resolutions.</p><p>B. Each ordinance or resolution shall include articles of incorporation setting forth:</p><p>1. The name of the authority and the address of its principal office.</p><p>2. The name of each incorporating locality, together with the names, addresses and terms of office of the first members of the board of the authority.</p><p>3. The purpose or purposes for which the authority is created.</p><p>C. Each participating locality shall cause to be published at least one time in a newspaper of general circulation in its locality, a copy of the ordinance or resolution together with a notice stating that on a day certain, not less than ten days after publication of the notice, a public hearing will be held on such ordinance or resolution. If at the hearing substantial opposition to the proposed park authority is heard, the members of the participating localities' governing bodies may in their discretion call for a referendum on the question of establishing such an authority. The request for a referendum shall be initiated by resolution of the governing body and filed with the clerk of the circuit court for the locality. The court shall order the referendum as provided for in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-681/'>24.2-681</a> et seq. Where two or more localities are participating in the formation of an authority the referendum, if any be ordered, shall be held on the same date in all such localities so participating. In any event if ten percent of the registered voters in such locality file a petition with the governing body at the hearing calling for a referendum such governing body shall request a referendum as herein provided.</p><p>D. Having specified the initial plan of organization of the authority, and having initiated the program, the localities organizing such authority may, from time to time, by subsequent ordinance or resolution, after public hearing, and with or without referendum, specify further parks to be acquired and maintained by the authority, and no other parks shall be acquired or maintained by the authority than those so specified. However, if the governing bodies of the localities fail to specify any project or projects to be undertaken, and if the governing bodies do not disapprove any project or projects proposed by the authority, then the authority shall be deemed to have all the powers granted by this chapter.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-714.3; 1950, p. 1244; 1952, c. 401; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-1230; 1975, c. 517; 1997, c. 587.</p>