# ยง 32.1-73.20 Membership; terms; quorum; meetings; staffing.

<p>A. The Council shall have a total membership of 21 members that shall consist of 18 nonlegislative citizen members and three ex officio members. The Governor shall appoint a chairman and vice-chairman who shall be residents of the Commonwealth and shall not be employed by any federal or state government. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed by the Governor and shall include, in addition to the chairman and the vice-chairman, one representative from an academic research institution in the Commonwealth that receives any grant funding for renal disease research; one registered nurse or advanced practice registered nurse licensed and currently practicing in the Commonwealth with experience in treating renal disease; two physicians with expertise in renal disease who are licensed and currently practicing medicine in the Commonwealth; one hospital administrator, or his designee, from a hospital in the Commonwealth that provides care to persons diagnosed with renal disease; one person who is a dialysis social worker; two persons who are 18 years of age or older who have been diagnosed with a renal disease; two caregivers of persons with renal disease; two representatives of renal disease patient organizations operating in the Commonwealth; one licensed pharmacist with experience with drugs used to treat renal disease; one representative from the biopharmaceutical industry; one representative from health plan companies; and one member from the scientific community who is engaged in renal disease research, which may include a medical researcher with experience conducting research on renal disease. The Commissioner of Health, the Director of the Department of Medical Assistance Services, and the Director of the Department of Health Professions, or their designees, shall serve ex officio with nonvoting privileges.</p><p>Nonlegislative citizen members of the Council shall be citizens of the Commonwealth. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years.</p><p>Ex officio members of the Council shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.</p><p>Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>B. The Council shall meet quarterly and the chairman and vice-chairman shall establish a meeting schedule on an annual basis. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>C. Members of the Council shall serve without compensation or reimbursement.</p><p>D. The Department of Health shall provide staff support to the Council. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall provide assistance to the Council, upon request.</p><p>2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0717'>717</a>.</p>