# ยง 62.1-270 Penalties.

<p>A. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with any order of the Board pertaining to ground water, or order of a court, issued as herein provided, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $25,000 for each violation within the discretion of the court. Each day of violation of each requirement shall constitute a separate offense.</p><p>Such civil penalties may, in the discretion of the court assessing them, be directed to be paid into the treasury of the county, city, or town in which the violation occurred to be used for the purpose of abating environmental pollution therein in such manner as the court may, by order, direct, except that where the person in violation is such county, city or town itself, or its agent, the court shall direct such penalty to be paid to the State Treasurer for deposit into the Virginia Environmental Emergency Response Fund pursuant to Chapter 25 of Title 10.1.</p><p>With the consent of any person in violation of this chapter, the Board may provide, in an order issued by the Board against the person, for the payment of civil charges. These charges shall be in lieu of the civil penalties referred to above. Such civil charges shall be deposited by the State Treasurer into the Virginia Environmental Emergency Response Fund.</p><p>B. Any person willfully or negligently violating any provision of this chapter, any regulation or order of the Board pertaining to ground water, any condition of a ground water withdrawal permit or any order of a court shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by confinement in jail for not more than twelve months and a fine of not less than $2,500 nor more than $25,000, either or both. Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this chapter, any regulation or order of the Board pertaining to ground water, any condition of a ground water withdrawal permit or any order of a court issued as herein provided, or who knowingly makes any false statement in any form required to be submitted under this chapter shall be guilty of a felony punishable by a term of imprisonment of not less than one year nor more than three years, or in the discretion of the jury or the court trying the case without a jury, confinement in jail for not more than twelve months and a fine of not less than $5,000 nor more than $50,000 for each violation. Any defendant that is not an individual shall, upon conviction of a violation under this subsection, be sentenced to pay a fine of not less than $10,000. Each day of violation of each requirement shall constitute a separate offense.</p><p>C. Any person who knowingly violates any provision of this chapter, and who knows at that time that he thereby places another person in imminent danger of death or serious bodily harm, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a felony punishable by a term of imprisonment of not less than two years nor more than fifteen years and a fine of not more than $250,000, either or both. A defendant that is not an individual shall, upon conviction of a violation under this subsection, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding the greater of one million dollars or an amount that is three times the economic benefit realized by the defendant as a result of the offense. The maximum penalty shall be doubled with respect to both fine and imprisonment for any subsequent conviction of the same person under this subsection.</p><p>D. Criminal prosecution under this section shall be commenced within three years of discovery of the offense, notwithstanding the limitations provided in any other statute.</p><p>1992, c. 812.</p>