# ยง 54.1-2020 Definitions.

<p>A. As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly requires otherwise:</p><p>"Appraisal management company" means a person or entity that (i) provides appraisal management services to creditors or to secondary mortgage market participants, including affiliates; (ii) provides such services in connection with valuing a consumer's principal dwelling as security for a consumer credit transaction or incorporating such transactions into securitizations; and (iii) within a 12-month calendar year, oversees an appraiser panel of more than 15 state-certified or state-licensed appraisers in a state or 25 or more state-certified or state-licensed appraisers in two or more states. "Appraisal management company" does not include a department or division of an entity that provides appraisal management services only to that entity.</p><p>"Appraisal management services" means one or more of the following: (i) recruiting, selecting, and retaining appraisers; (ii) contracting with state-certified or state-licensed appraisers to perform appraisal assignments; (iii) managing the process of having an appraisal performed, including providing administrative services such as receiving appraisal orders and appraisal reports, submitting completed appraisal reports to creditors and secondary mortgage market participants, collecting fees from creditors and secondary mortgage market participants for services provided, and paying appraisers for services performed; and (iv) reviewing and verifying the work of appraisers.</p><p>"Appraisal services" means acting as an appraiser to provide an appraisal or appraisal review.</p><p>"Appraiser" means a person licensed or certified under ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2017/'>54.1-2017</a> and as otherwise provided in Chapter 20.1 (ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2009/'>54.1-2009</a> et seq.).</p><p>"Appraiser panel" means a network, list, or roster of licensed or certified appraisers approved by an appraisal management company to perform appraisals as independent contractors for the appraisal management company. Appraisers on an appraisal management company's appraiser panel include both appraisers accepted by the appraisal management company for consideration for future appraisal assignments in covered transactions or for secondary mortgage market participants in connection with covered transactions and appraisers engaged by the appraisal management company to perform one or more appraisals in covered transactions or for secondary mortgage market participants in connection with covered transactions. An appraiser is an independent contractor for purposes of this chapter if the appraiser is treated as an independent contractor by the appraisal management company for purposes of federal income taxation.</p><p>"Board" means the Virginia Real Estate Appraiser Board.</p><p>"Employee" means an individual who has an employment relationship acknowledged by both the individual and the company and is treated as an employee for purposes of compliance with federal income tax laws.</p><p>"Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice" means the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice adopted by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.</p><p>B. The definitions contained in ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2009/'>54.1-2009</a> shall be applicable except to the extent inconsistent with the definitions contained in this chapter.</p><p>2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0508'>508</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0229'>229</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0230'>230</a>.</p>