# ยง 38.2-6502 Division established; Exchange created.

<p>A. The Commission shall establish the Health Benefit Exchange Division as a separate division within the Commission. The Virginia Health Benefit Exchange shall be established and administered by the Commission, through the Division, in compliance with the requirements of this chapter and the Federal Act. The Exchange shall facilitate the purchase and sale of qualified health plans and qualified dental plans to qualified individuals and qualified employers. The Commission shall ensure that the Exchange and Bureau Divisions work in agreement to administer consistent regulation of Exchange plans.</p><p>B. The Commission shall appoint a Director of the Division, who shall have overall management responsibility for the Exchange.</p><p>C. The Commission, through the Division, shall have governing power and authority in any matter pertaining to the Exchange. The Commission may delegate as it may deem proper such powers and duties to the Director.</p><p>D. The Commission shall carry out its duties and responsibilities under this chapter in accordance with its rules of practice and procedure and shall decide all matters related to the Exchange in the same manner as it does when performing its other regulatory, judicial, and administrative duties and responsibilities under this Code.</p><p>E. The Commission may adopt rules and regulations pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/38.2-223/'>38.2-223</a> as may be necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Exchange.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0916'>916</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0917'>917</a>.</p>