# ยง 15.2-2295 Aircraft noise attenuation features in buildings and structures within airport noise zones.

<p>Any locality in whose jurisdiction, or adjacent jurisdiction, is located a licensed airport or United States government or military air facility, may enforce building regulations relating to the provision or installation of acoustical treatment measures in residential buildings and structures, or portions thereof, other than farm structures, for which building permits are issued after January 1, 2003, in areas affected by above average noise levels from aircraft due to their proximity to flight operations at nearby airports. Any locality in whose jurisdiction, or adjacent jurisdiction, is located a United States Master Jet Base, a licensed airport or United States government or military air facility, may, in addition, adopt and enforce building regulations relating to the provision or installation of acoustical treatment measures applicable to buildings and structures, or portions thereof, in Assembly, Business, Educational, Institutional, and Mercantile groups, as defined in the International Building Code.</p><p>In establishing the regulations, the locality may adopt one or more noise overlay zones as an amendment to its zoning map and may establish different measures to be provided or installed within each zone, taking into account the severity of the impact of aircraft noise upon buildings and structures within each zone. Any such regulations or amendments to a zoning map shall provide a process for reasonable notice to affected property owners. Any regulations or amendments to a zoning map shall be adopted in accordance with this chapter. A statement shall be placed on all recorded surveys, subdivision plats and all final site plans approved after January 1, 2003, giving notice that a parcel of real property either partially or wholly lies within an airport noise overlay zone. No existing use of property which is affected by the adoption of such regulations or amendments to a zoning map shall be considered a nonconforming use solely because of the regulations or amendments. The provisions of this section shall not affect any local aircraft noise attenuation regulations or ordinances adopted prior to the effective date of this act, and such regulations and ordinances may be amended provided the amendments shall not alter building materials, construction methods, plan submission requirements or inspection practices specified in the Virginia Uniform Statewide Building Code.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0745'>745</a>, ยง 15.1-491.03; 1997, c. 587; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0180'>180</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0509'>509</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0135'>135</a>.</p>