# ยง 63.2-610 Participation in VIEW; coordinated services.

<p>A. In administering VIEW, the Department shall ensure that local departments provide delivery and coordination of all services through intensive case management. VIEW participants shall be referred to a case manager. The case manager shall fully explain VIEW to the participant and shall provide the participant with written materials explaining VIEW.</p><p>B. The Department shall assist local departments in improving the delivery of services, including intensive case management, through the utilization of public, private and nonprofit organizations, to the extent permissible under federal law.</p><p>C. The Department shall be responsible for the coordination of the intensive case management. Job finding and job matching leading to independent employment shall be facilitated by the Virginia Employment Commission and the Department of Small Business and Supplier Diversity.</p><p>D. The Secretary of Health and Human Resources, assisted by the Secretary of Commerce and Trade, shall prepare and maintain an annual plan for coordinating and integrating all appropriate services in order to promote successful outcomes. The plan shall encourage the use of local and regional service providers and permit a variety of methods of providing services. Emphasis shall be placed on coordinating and integrating career counseling, job development, job training and skills, job placement, and academic and technical education. Public and private institutions of higher education and other agencies which offer similar or related services shall be invited to participate as fully as possible in developing, implementing and updating the annual coordination plan.</p><p>E. The Secretary of Health and Human Resources shall:</p><p>1. Increase public awareness of the federal earned income credit and encourage families who may be eligible to apply for this tax credit;</p><p>2. Pursue aggressive child-support initiatives as established by the General Assembly;</p><p>3. Work with community providers to develop adoption, education, family planning, marriage, parenting, and training options for Program participants;</p><p>4. Increase public awareness of the tax advantages of relocating one's residence in order to secure employment;</p><p>5. Provide leadership for the development of community work experience opportunities in VIEW;</p><p>6. Develop strategies to educate, assist and stimulate employers to hire participants and to provide community work experience opportunities, in consultation with representatives of employers and relevant public and private agencies on the state and local level; and</p><p>7. Provide technical assistance to local departments to assist them in working with employers in the community to develop job and community work experience opportunities for participants.</p><p>1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0858'>858</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0951'>951</a>, ยง 63.1-133.45; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0450'>450</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0589'>589</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0599'>599</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0855'>855</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0482'>482</a>.</p>