# § 15.2-1420 How questions determined; tie breaker.

<p>All questions submitted to the governing body for decision shall be determined by a majority of the members voting on any such question unless another method of determination is required by the Constitution of Virginia or general law.</p><p>In counties which have designated a tie breaker pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1421/'>15.2-1421</a>, in any case in which there is a tie vote of the board upon any question when all the members are not present, the question shall be passed by till the next meeting when it shall again be voted upon even though all members are not present; in any case in which there is a tie vote on any question after complying with the herein above procedure, the clerk shall record the vote and immediately notify the tie breaker elected by the voters as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1421/'>15.2-1421</a>, to give the casting vote in case of a tie, if that is practicable, and request his presence at the present meeting of the board; but if that is not practicable then the board may adjourn to a day fixed in the minutes of the board, or in case of a failure to agree on a day, to a day fixed by the clerk and entered by him on the minutes. At the present meeting or on the day named in the minutes the tie breaker shall attend. He shall be entitled to be fully advised as to the matter upon which he is to vote, and if not prepared to cast his vote at the time he may require the clerk to enter an order adjourning the meeting to some future day to be named in the minutes not to exceed thirty days and from time to time he shall have continuances entered until he is ready to vote, not to exceed thirty days. When he casts his vote the clerk shall record his vote and the tie shall be broken, and the question shall be decided as he casts his vote. If a meeting for any reason is not held on the day named in the minutes, the clerk shall enter on the minute book a day within ten days as a substitute day and duly notify all the members, and this shall continue until a meeting is held. After a tie has occurred, the tie breaker shall be considered a member of the board for the purpose of counting a quorum for the sole purpose of breaking the tie. Final votes on any ordinance or resolution shall be in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article VII, Sections 7 and 9 of the Constitution of Virginia.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-245; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-540; 1972, cc. 734, 790; 1974, c. 550; 1980, c. 172; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>; 1997, c. 587; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0833'>833</a>.</p>