# ยง 2.2-4379 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Complex project" means a construction project that includes one or more of the following significant components: difficult site location, unique equipment, specialized building systems, multifaceted program, accelerated schedule, historic designation, or intricate phasing or some other aspect that makes competitive sealed bidding not practical.</p><p>"Construction management contract" means a contract in which a party is retained by the owner to coordinate and administer contracts for construction services for the benefit of the owner and may also include, if provided in the contract, the furnishing of construction services to the owner.</p><p>"Covered institution" means a public institution of higher education operating (i) subject to a management agreement set forth in Article 4 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1004/'>23.1-1004</a> et seq.) of Chapter 10 of Title 23.1, (ii) under a memorandum of understanding pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1003/'>23.1-1003</a>, or (iii) under the pilot program authorized in the appropriation act.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of General Services.</p><p>"Design-build contract" means a contract between a public body and another party in which the party contracting with the public body agrees to both design and build the structure, or other item specified in the contract.</p><p>"Public body" means the same as that term is defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4301/'>2.2-4301</a>.</p><p>"State public body" means any authority, board, department, instrumentality, agency, or other unit of state government. "State public body" does not include any covered institution; any county, city, or town; or any local or regional governmental authority.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0699'>699</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0704'>704</a>.</p>