# § 35.1-1 Definitions.

<p>As used in this title, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Bed-and-breakfast operation" means a residential-type establishment that provides (i) two or more rental accommodations for transient guests and food service to a maximum of 18 transient guests on any single day for five or more days in any calendar year or (ii) at least one rental accommodation for transient guests and food service to a maximum of 18 transient guests on any single day for 30 or more days in any calendar year.</p><p>"Board" or "State Board" means the State Board of Health.</p><p>"Campground" means any area, place, parcel, or tract of land, by whatever name called, on which three or more campsites are occupied or intended for occupancy, or facilities are established or maintained, wholly or in part, for the accommodation of camping units for periods of overnight or longer, whether the use of the campsites and facilities is granted gratuitously, or by rental fee, lease, or conditional sale, or by covenants, restrictions, and easements, including any travel trailer camp, recreation camp, family campground, camping resort, or camping community. "Campground" does not mean a summer camp, migrant labor camp, or park for manufactured homes as defined in this section and in §§ <a href='/vacode/32.1-203/'>32.1-203</a> and <a href='/vacode/36-85.3/'>36-85.3</a>, or a construction camp, storage area for unoccupied camping units, or property upon which the individual owner may choose to camp and not be prohibited or encumbered by covenants, restrictions, and conditions from providing his sanitary facilities within his property lines.</p><p>"Camping unit" means any device or vehicular type structure for use as temporary living quarters or shelter during periods of recreation, vacation, leisure time, or travel, including any tent, tent trailer, travel trailer, camping trailer, pickup camper, or motor home.</p><p>"Campsite" means any plot of ground within a campground used or intended for occupation by the camping unit.</p><p>"Certified food protection manager" means a person who has demonstrated proficiency in food safety issues, regulations, and techniques in maintaining a safe-food environment by passing a test and receiving a certification as part of a program that is accredited by the Board.</p><p>"Commissioner" means the State Health Commissioner.</p><p>"Department" means the State Department of Health.</p><p>"Hotel" means any place offering to the public for compensation transitory lodging or sleeping accommodations, overnight or otherwise, including facilities known by varying nomenclatures or designations as hotels, motels, travel lodges, tourist homes, or hostels.</p><p>"Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other legal entity.</p><p>"Restaurant" means:</p><p>1. Any place where food is prepared for service to the public on or off the premises, or any place where food is served, including lunchrooms, short order places, cafeterias, coffee shops, cafes, taverns, delicatessens, dining accommodations of public or private clubs, kitchen facilities of hospitals and nursing homes, dining accommodations of public and private schools and institutions of higher education, and kitchen areas of local correctional facilities subject to standards adopted under § <a href='/vacode/53.1-68/'>53.1-68</a>.</p><p>2. Any place or operation that prepares or stores food for distribution to persons of the same business operation or of a related business operation for service to the public, including operations preparing or storing food for catering services, push cart operations, hotdog stands, and other mobile points of service.</p><p>3. Mobile points of service to which food is distributed by a place or operation described in subdivision 2 unless the point of service and of consumption is in a private residence.</p><p>"Restaurant" does not include any place manufacturing packaged or canned foods that are distributed to grocery stores or other similar retailers for sale to the public.</p><p>"Summer camp" means any building, tent, or vehicle, or group of buildings, tents, or vehicles, if operated as one place or establishment, or any other place or establishment, public or private, together with the land and waters adjacent thereto, that is operated or used in this Commonwealth for the entertainment, education, recreation, religious instruction or activities, physical education, or health of persons under 18 years of age who are not related to the operator of such place or establishment by blood or marriage within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity, if 12 or more such persons at any one time are accommodated, gratuitously or for compensation, overnight and during any portion of more than two consecutive days.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 35-1, 35-25, 35-43, 35-54; 1960, c. 186; 1964, c. 327; 1981, c. 468; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0797'>797</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0450'>450</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0275'>275</a>.</p>