# ยง 15.2-5204 Members of commission; quorum; compensation; expenses; removal and vacancies.

<p>A. A hospital or health center commission shall consist of the following number of members based upon the number of political subdivisions participating: for one political subdivision, five members; for two, six members; for three, six members; for four, eight members; and for more than four, one member for each of the participating subdivisions. The respective members shall be appointed by the governing bodies of the subdivisions they represent, may be members of such governing bodies, may be residents of such subdivisions, and shall be appointed for such terms as the appointing body designates. A member shall hold office until the earlier of the effective date of his resignation or the date on which his successor has been appointed and has qualified. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term. The powers of the commission conferred by this chapter shall be vested in and exercised by the members in office. A majority of the members then in office shall constitute a quorum. The commission shall elect its own chairman and shall adopt rules and regulations for its own procedure and government. The commission members may receive up to $50 for attendance at each commission meeting, not to exceed $1,200 per year, and shall be paid their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Any commission member may be removed at any time by the governing body appointing him, and vacancies on the commission shall be filled for the unexpired terms.</p><p>B. In Chesterfield County, the number of commission members shall be seven and their terms may be staggered as the appointing body designates. Such members shall not be removable at any time by the County's governing body except for malfeasance or at the end of the member's term.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 32-279; 1978, c. 83, ยง 15.1-1518; 1979, c. 719; 1980, c. 86; 1993, c. 266; 1997, c. 587; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0658'>658</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0472'>472</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0735'>735</a>.</p>