# ยง 30-19.1:13 Racial and ethnic impact statements for criminal justice legislation.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Disparities" means the difference in criminal justice outcomes for a racial or ethnic subgroup compared to their share of the state population.</p><p>"Racial and ethnic impact statement" means a statement created using available data to outline the potential impact of a criminal justice bill on racial and ethnic disparities within the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. At the request of the Chair of the House Committee for Courts of Justice or the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission shall review and prepare a racial and ethnic impact statement for a proposed criminal justice bill.</p><p>C. The Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission shall forward copies of the racial and ethnic impact statement prepared pursuant to subsection B to the patron of the bill and the Chair of the House Committee for Courts of Justice or the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, as appropriate.</p><p>D. No more than three racial and ethnic impact statements may be requested by the Chair of the House Committee for Courts of Justice and no more than three racial and ethnic impact statements may be requested by the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary for completion during a single regular session of the General Assembly.</p><p>E. Upon the request of the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission, the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court, Virginia State Police, Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission, Department of Corrections, and all other state agencies shall expeditiously provide necessary data and assistance for the preparation of racial and ethnic impact statements.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0183'>183</a>.</p>