# ยง 38.2-6503 Advisory Committee.

<p>A. There is hereby established an Advisory Committee in accordance with ยง 1311 (d) of the Federal Act and 45 C.F.R. ยง 155.110 to advise and provide recommendations to the Commission and the Director in carrying out the purposes and duties of the Exchange. The Committee shall consist of up to 15 members. Members shall be appointed as follows: five nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor, each of whom shall have demonstrated and acknowledged expertise in individual health coverage, small employer health coverage, health benefits plan administration, health care finance and economics, actuarial science, or with expertise in eligibility and enrollment in health care affordability programs and public health insurance; at least three nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Commission, including an individual representing an organization that represents the Virginia insurance industry, an individual representing insurance agents, and a consumer representative; and any other members determined by the Commission. The Commissioner of Insurance, the Director of the Department of Medical Assistance Services, the State Health Commissioner, the Commissioner of the Department of Social Services, and the Secretary of Health and Human Resources, or their designees, shall serve as ex officio nonvoting members of the Committee.</p><p>B. No member of the Committee shall be a legislator or hold any elective office in state government.</p><p>C. A majority of the members appointed by the Governor and a majority of the members appointed by the Commission shall have no conflict of interest as set forth in the Federal Act.</p><p>D. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. No nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.</p><p>E. The Committee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the appointed members shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>F. All meetings of the Committee shall be announced at least one week in advance on the Exchange website and shall be open to the public. The Committee shall permit reasonable public comment concerning matters on a meeting's agenda at meetings not less frequently than biennially. The Committee shall announce prior to its meetings whether public comment will be accepted. The Committee shall accept written comment from the public on an ongoing basis.</p><p>G. Minutes of meetings of the Committee, which shall include the Committee's recommendations and responses to its recommendations, shall be available to the public and posted on the Exchange's website.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0916'>916</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0917'>917</a>.</p>