# ยง 23.1-1304 Governing boards; additional duties; educational programs.

<p>A. From such funds as are appropriated for such purpose, the Council shall develop, in consultation with public institutions of higher education and members of their governing boards, and annually deliver educational programs for the governing boards of such institutions. New members of such governing boards shall participate, at least once during their first two years of membership, in the programs, which shall be designed to address the role, duties, and responsibilities of the governing boards and may include in-service programs on current issues in higher education. In developing such programs, the Council may consider similar educational programs for institutional governing boards in other states. In addition, the Council shall develop educational materials for board members with more than two years of service on the governing board. Each such board member shall participate in further training on board governance at least once every two years, and the Council shall develop criteria by which such board members shall demonstrate compliance with this requirement.</p><p>B. Educational programs for the governing boards of public institutions of higher education shall include presentations relating to:</p><p>1. Board members' primary duty to the citizens of the Commonwealth;</p><p>2. Governing board committee structure and function;</p><p>3. The duties of the executive committee set forth in ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-1306/'>23.1-1306</a>;</p><p>4. Professional accounting and reporting standards;</p><p>5. Methods for meeting the statutory, regulatory, and fiduciary obligations of the board;</p><p>6. The requirements of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-3700/'>2.2-3700</a> et seq.), developed and delivered in conjunction with the Freedom of Information Advisory Council;</p><p>7. Institutional ethics and conflicts of interest;</p><p>8. Creating and implementing regulations and institution policies;</p><p>9. Business operations, administration, budgeting, financing, financial reporting, and financial reserves, including a segment on endowment management;</p><p>10. Fixing student tuition, mandatory fees, and other necessary charges, including a review of student debt trends;</p><p>11. Overseeing planning, construction, maintenance, expansion, and renovation projects that affect the institution's consolidated infrastructure, physical facilities, and natural environment, including its lands, improvements, and capital equipment;</p><p>12. Workforce planning, strategy, and investment;</p><p>13. Institutional advancement, including philanthropic giving, fundraising initiatives, alumni programming, communications and media, government and public relations, and community affairs;</p><p>14. Student welfare issues, including academic studies; curriculum; residence life; student governance and activities; and the general physical and psychological well-being of undergraduate and graduate students;</p><p>15. Current national and state issues in higher education;</p><p>16. Future national and state issues in higher education;</p><p>17. Relations between the governing board and the chief executive officer of the institution, including perspectives from chief executive officers of public institutions of higher education;</p><p>18. Best practices for board governance, including perspectives from current board members; and</p><p>19. Any other topics that the Council, public institutions of higher education, and members of their governing boards deem necessary or appropriate.</p><p>C. The Council shall submit to the General Assembly and the Governor an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Council pursuant to this section no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0868'>868</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0992'>992</a>, ยง 23-9.14:1; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0577'>577</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0644'>644</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0642'>642</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0643'>643</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0155'>155</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0156'>156</a>.</p>