# § 46.2-341.20:7 Possession of marijuana in commercial motor vehicle unlawful; civil penalty.

<p>A. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally possess marijuana in a commercial motor vehicle as defined in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-341.4/'>46.2-341.4</a>. The attorney for the Commonwealth or the county, city, or town attorney may prosecute such a case.</p><p>Upon the prosecution of a person for a violation of this section, ownership or occupancy of the vehicle in which marijuana was found shall not create a presumption that such person either knowingly or intentionally possessed such marijuana.</p><p>Any person who violates this section is subject to a civil penalty of no more than $25. A violation of this section is a civil offence. Any civil penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the Drug Offender Assessment and Treatment Fund established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/18.2-251.02/'>18.2-251.02</a>. Violations of this section by an adult shall be prepayable according to the procedures in § <a href='/vacode/16.1-69.40:2/'>16.1-69.40:2</a>.</p><p>B. Any violation of this section shall be charged by summons. A summons for a violation of this section may be executed by a law-enforcement officer when such violation is observed by such officer. The summons used by a law-enforcement officer pursuant to this section shall be in form the same as the uniform summons for motor vehicle law violations as prescribed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/46.2-388/'>46.2-388</a>. No court costs shall be assessed for violations of this section. A person's criminal history record information as defined in § <a href='/vacode/9.1-101/'>9.1-101</a> shall not include records of any charges or judgments for a violation of this section, and records of such charges or judgments shall not be reported to the Central Criminal Records Exchange; however, such violation shall be reported to the Department of Motor Vehicles and shall be included on such individual's driving record.</p><p>C. The procedure for appeal and trial of any violation of this section shall be the same as provided by law for misdemeanors; if requested by either party on appeal to the circuit court, trial by jury shall be as provided in Article 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/19.2-260/'>19.2-260</a> et seq.) of Chapter 15 of Title 19.2, and the Commonwealth shall be required to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section shall not apply to members of state, federal, county, city, or town law-enforcement agencies, jail officers, or correctional officers, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/53.1-1/'>53.1-1</a>, certified as handlers of dogs trained in the detection of controlled substances when possession of marijuana is necessary for the performance of their duties.</p><p>E. The provisions of this section involving marijuana in the form of cannabis products as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3408.3/'>54.1-3408.3</a> shall not apply to any person who possesses such cannabis product pursuant to a valid written certification issued by a practitioner in the course of his professional practice pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3408.3/'>54.1-3408.3</a> for treatment or to alleviate the symptoms of (i) the person's diagnosed condition or disease, (ii) if such person is the parent or guardian of a minor or of a vulnerable adult as defined in § <a href='/vacode/18.2-369/'>18.2-369</a>, such minor's or vulnerable adult's diagnosed condition or disease, or (iii) if such person has been designated as a registered agent pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3408.3/'>54.1-3408.3</a>, the diagnosed condition or disease of his principal or, if the principal is the parent or legal guardian of a minor or of a vulnerable adult as defined in § <a href='/vacode/18.2-369/'>18.2-369</a>, such minor's or vulnerable adult's diagnosed condition or disease.</p><p>2021 Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0227'>227</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0228'>228</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0259'>259</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0642'>642</a>.</p>