# ยง 46.2-1190.6 Other grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking licenses.

<p>A license issued pursuant to this article may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds, where applicable:</p><p>1. Material misstatement or omission in application for license;</p><p>2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written notice from the Department or any willful failure to comply with a lawful order, any provision of this article, or any term, condition, or restriction of a license;</p><p>3. Failure to comply with zoning or other land use regulations, ordinances, or statutes;</p><p>4. Use of deceptive business acts or practices;</p><p>5. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact that is untrue, misleading, or deceptive relating to the conduct of the business for which a license is held or sought;</p><p>6. Having been found, through a judicial or administrative hearing, to have committed fraudulent or deceptive acts in connection with the training center for which a license is held or sought, or any consumer-related fraud;</p><p>7. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the training center for which a license is held or sought;</p><p>8. Improper assignment, lending, or otherwise allowing the improper use of a license;</p><p>9. Any corporate officer, owner, administrator and any individual authorized to obligate the training center having been convicted of a felony;</p><p>10. Any corporate officer, owner, administrator and any individual authorized to obligate the training center having been convicted of any misdemeanor involving lying, cheating, stealing, or moral turpitude;</p><p>11. Failure to furnish the Department information, documentation, or records required or requested pursuant to this article;</p><p>12. Knowingly and willfully filing any false report, account, record, or memorandum;</p><p>13. Willfully altering or changing the appearance or wording of a training center license or a course completion certificate;</p><p>14. Failure to provide services in accordance with the terms, limitations, conditions, or requirements of the license; or</p><p>15. Failure to comply with other state and federal requirements relating to training center operations.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>.</p>