# ยง 67-1900 (Repealed effective October 1, 2021; Expires January 1, 2027) Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advisory Council" means the Electric Vehicle Rebate Program Advisory Council.</p><p>"Base price" means the manufacturer's base price for the lowest price trim level of the model and shall not include charges for optional equipment, taxes, title, or registration fees.</p><p>"Dealer" means a motor vehicle dealer licensed pursuant to Chapter 15 (ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-1500/'>46.2-1500</a> et seq.) of Title 46.2.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy.</p><p>"Electric motor vehicle" means a two-axle motor vehicle with a base price of not more than $55,000 that uses electricity as its only source of motive power. "Electric motor vehicle" includes fuel cell electric vehicles.</p><p>"EPA" means the federal Environmental Protection Agency.</p><p>"Fund" means the Electric Vehicle Rebate Program Fund.</p><p>"Participating dealer" means a dealer who is participating in the Program.</p><p>"Program" means the Electric Vehicle Rebate Program established pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Purchase" means the purchase or lease of a new or used electric motor vehicle.</p><p>"Qualified resident of the Commonwealth" means a resident of the Commonwealth whose annual household income does not exceed 300 percent of the current poverty guidelines.</p><p>"Used electric motor vehicle" means a previously owned or leased electric motor vehicle that is more than two years old and not more than seven years old.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0493'>493</a>.</p>