# ยง 2.2-1834 Inspection of state-owned properties for insurance purposes; determination of coverage; procurement, discontinuance, etc., of insurance.

<p>A. The Division may inspect or administer a program of self-inspection for all state-owned properties and confer with the proper officials or employees of the several agencies of the Commonwealth for the purpose of determining (i) insurance coverages that are necessary with respect to properties under their control and (ii) the manner whereby savings and costs of such insurance may be made. It may seek the assistance of insurance companies and their representatives, and the State Fire Marshal, in devising means by which hazards may be reduced or eliminated. The Division shall have final responsibility with respect to coverage, noncoverage, provisions of policies, quantity and type of fire and extended coverage, vandalism and malicious mischief, and optional perils or all risk insurance coverage. The Governor may exempt any agency, institution of higher education, or part thereof from any part of the risk management and insurance program.</p><p>B. The Division may change or discontinue fire and extended coverage, vandalism and malicious mischief, optional perils or all risk insurance coverage carried pursuant to bond indentures and other contractual requirements, provided the change or discontinuance meets with the written approval of the trustee of the bond indenture and those signatory to the contracts.</p><p>C. As its programs are implemented, the Division shall assume the sole responsibility, with the approval of the Governor, for purchasing insurance, self-insuring or combining insurance and self-insurance (i) on all properties of the Commonwealth or (ii) for protection of liabilities or other casualties.</p><p>1980, c. 488, ยง 2.1-526.3; 1982, c. 318; 1988, c. 848; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0475'>475</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0510'>510</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0618'>618</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0632'>632</a>, ยง 2.1-191.7; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>