# § 2.2-2455 (Effective September 1, 2022) Charitable Gaming Board; membership; terms; quorum; compensation; staff.

<p>A. The Charitable Gaming Board (the Board) is hereby established as an advisory board within the meaning of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2100/'>2.2-2100</a> in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Board is to advise the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services on all aspects of the conduct of charitable gaming in Virginia.</p><p>B. The Board shall consist of nine members who shall be appointed by the Governor subject to confirmation by the General Assembly as follows: one member who is a member of a charitable organization subject to Article 1.1:1 (§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-340.15/'>18.2-340.15</a> et seq.) of Chapter 8 of Title 18.2 in good standing with the Department; one member who is a charitable gaming supplier registered and in good standing with the Department; one member who is an owner, lessor, or lessee of premises where charitable gaming is conducted; at least one member who is or has been a law-enforcement officer in Virginia but who (i) is not a charitable gaming supplier registered with the Department, (ii) is not a lessor of premises where charitable gaming is conducted, (iii) is not a member of a charitable organization, or (iv) does not have an interest in or is not affiliated with such supplier or charitable organization or owner, lessor, or lessee of premises where charitable gaming is conducted; and five citizens who do not have an interest in or are not affiliated with a charitable organization, charitable gaming supplier, or owner, lessor, or lessee of premises where charitable gaming is conducted.</p><p>To the extent practicable, the Board shall consist of individuals from different geographic regions of the Commonwealth. Each member of the Board shall have been a resident of the Commonwealth for a period of at least three years next preceding his appointment, and his continued residency shall be a condition of his tenure in office. Members shall be appointed for four-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled by the Governor in the same manner as the original appointment for the unexpired portion of the term. Each Board member shall be eligible for reappointment for a second consecutive term at the discretion of the Governor. Persons who are first appointed to initial terms of less than four years shall thereafter be eligible for reappointment to two consecutive terms of four years each. No sitting member of the General Assembly shall be eligible for appointment to the Board. The members of the Board shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor.</p><p>C. The Board shall elect from among its members a chairman and vice-chairman from among its members.</p><p>D. A quorum shall consist of five members. The decision of a majority of those members present and voting shall constitute a decision of the Board.</p><p>E. For each day or part thereof spent in the performance of his duties, each member of the Board shall receive such compensation and reimbursement for his reasonable expenses as provided in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2104/'>2.2-2104</a>.</p><p>F. The Board shall adopt rules and procedures for the conduct of its business, including a provision that Board members shall abstain or otherwise recuse themselves from voting on any matter in which they or a member of their immediate family have a personal interest in a transaction as defined in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-3101/'>2.2-3101</a>. The Board shall meet at least four times a year, and other meetings may be held at any time or place determined by the Board or upon call of the chairman or upon a written request to the chairman by any two members. Except for emergency meetings, all members shall be duly notified of the time and place of any regular or other meeting at least 10 days in advance of such meeting.</p><p>G. Staff to the Board shall be provided by the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0884'>884</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0689'>689</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0755'>755</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0055'>55</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0679'>679</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0597'>597</a>.</p>