# ยง 18.2-340.28:1 Conduct of network bingo.

<p>A. Any organization qualified to conduct bingo games pursuant to the provisions of this article may also sell network bingo cards; however, network bingo shall be sold only at such times designated in the permit for regular bingo games and only at locations at which the organization is authorized to conduct regular bingo games pursuant to subsections E and F of ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-340.27/'>18.2-340.27</a>.</p><p>B. Any organization selling network bingo cards shall maintain a record of the date and quantity of network bingo cards purchased from a licensed network bingo provider. The organization shall also maintain a written invoice or receipt from a licensed supplier verifying any information required by this subsection. Such supplies shall be paid for only by check drawn on the gaming account of the organization or by electronic fund transfer. A complete inventory of all such gaming supplies shall be maintained by the organization on the premises where network bingo cards are sold.</p><p>C. No qualified organization shall sell any network bingo cards to any individual younger than 18 years of age. No individual younger than 18 years of age shall play or redeem any network bingo cards.</p><p>D. A qualified organization shall accept only cash or, at its option, checks or debit cards in payment of any charges or assessments for players to participate in any network bingo game. However, no such organization shall accept postdated checks in payment of any charges or assessments for players to participate in network bingo games.</p><p>E. No qualified organization or any person on the premises shall extend lines of credit or accept any credit or other electronic fund transfer other than debit cards in payment of any charges or assessments for players to participate in network bingo games.</p><p>F. No qualified organization shall conduct network bingo more frequently than one day in any calendar week, which shall not be the same day of each week.</p><p>G. No qualified organization shall sell network bingo cards on the Internet or other online service or allow the play of network bingo on the Internet or other online service. However, the location where network bingo games are conducted shall be equipped with a video monitor, television, or video screen, or any other similar means of visually displaying a broadcast or signal, that relays live, real-time video of the numbers as they are called by a live caller. The Internet or other online service may be used to relay information about winning players.</p><p>H. Qualified organizations may award network bingo prizes on a graduated scale; however, no single network bingo prize shall exceed $25,000.</p><p>I. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an organization from participating in more than one network bingo network.</p><p>2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0036'>36</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0350'>350</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0568'>568</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0520'>520</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0722'>722</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>.</p>