# § 59.1-358 Remedies.

<p>A. Jurisdiction to hear and determine cases and controversies arising under provisions of this chapter shall be in the circuit court of the city or county wherein the dealer has its principal place of business in Virginia. The court may grant equitable relief as is necessary to remedy the effects of conduct which it finds to exist and which is prohibited under this chapter, including, but not limited to, declaratory judgment and injunctive relief.</p><p>B. In addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity, if a supplier has attempted or accomplished an annulment, cancellation, termination or refused to continue or renew an agreement without good cause or withheld or delayed consent in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-354/'>59.1-354</a> or § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-356/'>59.1-356</a>, then the dealer shall be entitled to recover losses and damages, both general and special, proximately resulting therefrom, together with the cost of the action and reasonable legal fees. Such damages shall include compensation for the value of the agreement and the good will of the dealer's business, if any, arising therefrom.</p><p>C. Nothing contained herein shall bar the right of an agreement to provide for binding arbitration of disputes. Any such arbitration shall be consistent with the provisions of this chapter and Chapter 21 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-577/'>8.01-577</a> et seq.) of Title 8.01, and the place of any such arbitration shall be in the city or county in which the dealer maintains his principal place of business in Virginia.</p><p>D. No supplier may cancel, terminate or refuse to continue to renew an agreement during the 120-day period set forth in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-355/'>59.1-355</a> or during the pendency of litigation or arbitration with respect thereto except under the conditions set forth in subsection D of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-355/'>59.1-355</a>.</p><p>1988, c. 73.</p>