# § 33.2-3706 Annual budget and allocation of expenses.

<p>A. The Authority shall adopt an annual budget and develop a funding plan to be supported by the revenues allocated under subdivision D 1 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-3701/'>33.2-3701</a> and shall provide for such development and adoption in its bylaws. The funding plan shall provide for the expenditure of funds for transportation purposes over a four-to-six-year period and shall align with the Statewide Transportation Plan established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-353/'>33.2-353</a>, the long-range transportation plan of Planning District 15, or the long-range transportation plans of participating localities as much as possible. The Authority shall solicit public comment on its budget and funding plan by posting a summary of such budget and funding plan on its website and holding a public hearing. Such public hearing shall be advertised on the Authority's website and in a newspaper of general circulation in Planning District 15.</p><p>B. The administrative and operating expenses of the Authority shall be provided in an annual budget adopted by the Authority and to the extent funds for such expenses are not provided from other sources shall be paid from the Fund. Such budget shall be limited solely to the administrative and operating expenses of the Authority and shall not include any funds for construction or acquisition of transportation facilities or the maintenance or performance of any transportation service.</p><p>C. Members may be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>, if approved by the Authority. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Authority.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1235'>1235</a>.</p>