# § 54.1-3486 Definitions.

<p>As used in this Compact, and except as otherwise provided, the following definitions shall apply:</p><p>"Active duty military" means full-time duty status in the active uniformed service of the United States, including members of the National Guard and Reserve on active duty orders pursuant to 10 U.S.C. §§ 1209 and 1211.</p><p>"Adverse action" means disciplinary action taken by a physical therapy licensing board based upon misconduct, unacceptable performance, or a combination of both.</p><p>"Alternative program" means a nondisciplinary monitoring or practice remediation process approved by a physical therapy licensing board. This includes, but is not limited to, substance abuse issues.</p><p>"Compact privilege" means the authorization granted by a remote state to allow a licensee from another member state to practice as a physical therapist or work as a physical therapist assistant in the remote state under its laws and rules. The practice of physical therapy occurs in the member state where the patient/client is located at the time of the patient/client encounter.</p><p>"Continuing competence" means a requirement, as a condition of license renewal, to provide evidence of participation in, and/or completion of, educational and professional activities relevant to practice or area of work.</p><p>"Data system" means a repository of information about licensees, including examination, licensure, investigative, compact privilege, and adverse action.</p><p>"Encumbered license" means a license that a physical therapy licensing board has limited in any way.</p><p>"Executive Board" means a group of directors elected or appointed to act on behalf of, and within the powers granted to them, by the Commission.</p><p>"Home state" means the member state that is the licensee's primary state of residence.</p><p>"Investigative information" means information, records, and documents received or generated by a physical therapy licensing board pursuant to an investigation.</p><p>"Jurisprudence requirement" means the assessment of an individual's knowledge of the laws and rules governing the practice of physical therapy in a state.</p><p>"Licensee" means an individual who currently holds an authorization from the state to practice as a physical therapist or to work as a physical therapist assistant.</p><p>"Member state" means a state that has enacted the Compact.</p><p>"Party state" means any member state in which a licensee holds a current license or compact privilege or is applying for a license or compact privilege.</p><p>"Physical therapist" means an individual who is licensed by a state to practice physical therapy.</p><p>"Physical therapist assistant" means an individual who is licensed or certified by a state and who assists the physical therapist in selected components of physical therapy.</p><p>"Physical therapy," "physical therapy practice," and "the practice of physical therapy" mean the care and services provided by or under the direction and supervision of a licensed physical therapist as defined by § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3473/'>54.1-3473</a>.</p><p>"Physical Therapy Compact Commission" or "Commission" means the national administrative body whose membership consists of all states that have enacted the Compact.</p><p>"Physical therapy licensing board" or "licensing board" means the agency of a state that is responsible for the licensing and regulation of physical therapists and physical therapist assistants.</p><p>"Remote state" means a member state other than the home state, where a licensee is exercising or seeking to exercise the compact privilege.</p><p>"Rule" means a regulation, principle, or directive promulgated by the Commission that has the force of law.</p><p>"State" means any state, commonwealth, district, or territory of the United States of America that regulates the practice of physical therapy.</p><p>2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0300'>300</a>.</p>