# § 58.1-2628 Annual report.

<p>A. Each telegraph company and telephone company shall report annually, on April 15, to the Commission all real and tangible personal property of every description in the Commonwealth, owned, operated or used by it, except leased automobiles, leased trucks or leased real estate, as of January 1 preceding, showing particularly the county, city, town or magisterial district wherein such property is located.</p><p>The report shall also show the total gross receipts for the 12 months ending December 31 next preceding and the interstate revenue, if any, attributable to the Commonwealth. Such revenue shall include all interstate revenue from business originating and terminating within the Commonwealth and a proportion of interstate revenue from all interstate business passing through, into or out of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Every corporation doing in the Commonwealth the business of furnishing water, heat, light and power, whether by means of gas or steam, except (i) pipeline transmission companies taxed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-2627.1/'>58.1-2627.1</a> or (ii) an electric supplier as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-400.2/'>58.1-400.2</a>, shall report annually, on April 15, to the Commission all real and tangible personal property of every description in the Commonwealth, belonging to it as of January 1 preceding, showing particularly, as to property owned by it, the county, city, town or magisterial district wherein such property is located. The report shall also show the total gross receipts for the 12 months ending December 31 next preceding.</p><p>C. Every corporation in the Commonwealth in the business of furnishing heat, light and power by means of electricity shall report annually, on April 15, to the Commission all real and tangible personal property of every description in the Commonwealth, belonging to such corporation, leased by such corporation for a term greater than one year, or operated by such corporation as of the preceding January 1, showing particularly the county, city, town or magisterial district in which such property is located, unless reported to the Commission by another corporation or electric supplier in the Commonwealth in the business of furnishing heat, light and power by means of electricity. Real and tangible personal property of every description in the Commonwealth leased by such corporation for a term greater than one year or operated by such corporation shall mean only those assets directly associated with production facilities and shall not mean real estate or vehicles. The report shall also show the total gross receipts less sales to federal, state and local governments for their own use. Electric suppliers organized as cooperatives shall report annually their gross receipts received from nonmembers.</p><p>D. Every electric supplier as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-2600/'>58.1-2600</a> shall report annually, on April 15, to the Commission all real and tangible personal property owned by such electric supplier, leased by such electric supplier for a term greater than one year, or operated by such electric supplier in the Commonwealth and used directly for the generation, storage, transmission, or distribution of electricity for sale as of the preceding January 1, showing particularly the county, city, town, or magisterial district in which such property is located, unless reported to the Commission by another corporation or electric supplier in the Commonwealth in the business of furnishing heat, light, and power by means of electricity. Real and tangible personal property of every description in the Commonwealth leased by such electric supplier for a term greater than one year or operated by such electric supplier shall mean only those assets directly associated with production facilities and shall not mean real estate or vehicles. The report shall also show the total gross receipts less sales to federal, state, and local governments for their own use. Electric suppliers organized as cooperatives shall report annually their gross receipts received from nonmembers.</p><p>E. Every pipeline transmission company shall report annually, on April 15, to the Department all of its real and tangible personal property of every description as of the beginning of January 1 preceding, showing particularly in what city, town or county and magisterial district therein the property is located.</p><p>F. The report required by subsections A through E shall be completed on forms prepared and furnished by the Commission. The Commission shall include on such forms such information as the Commission deems necessary for the proper administration of this chapter.</p><p>G. The report required by this section shall be certified by the oath of the president or other designated official of the corporation or person.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 58-581, 58-607 through 58-609; 1956, c. 69; 1968, c. 637; 1972, c. 813; 1979, c. 284; 1984, c. 675; 1987, c. 376; 1988, c. 899; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0197'>197</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0971'>971</a>; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0444'>444</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0661'>661</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0049'>49</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0050'>50</a>.</p>