# ยง 10.1-2124 Cooperative nonpoint source pollution program.

<p>A. The state has the responsibility under Article XI of the Constitution of Virginia to protect the bays, lakes, rivers, streams, creeks, and other state waters of the Commonwealth from pollution and impairment. Commercial and residential development of land as well as agricultural and other land uses may cause the impairment of state waters through nonpoint source pollution. In the exercise of their authority to control land use and development, it is the responsibility of counties, cities, and towns to consider the protection of all bays, lakes, rivers, streams, creeks, and other state waters from nonpoint source pollution. The exercise of environmental stewardship by individuals is necessary to protect state waters from nonpoint source pollution. To promote achievement of the directives of Article XI of the Constitution of Virginia and to implement the cooperative programs established by this chapter, the state shall assist local governments, soil and water conservation districts and individuals in restoring, protecting and improving water quality through grants provided from the Fund.</p><p>B. In order to restore, protect, and improve the quality of all bays, lakes, rivers, streams, creeks, and other state waters, and to achieve the pollution reduction goals, including nutrient reduction goals, established in commitments made by the Commonwealth to water quality restoration, protection, and enhancement, including but not limited to the Chesapeake Bay Agreement, as amended, the Department shall assist local governments, soil and water conservation districts, and individuals in the control of nonpoint source pollution, including nutrient reduction, through technical and financial assistance made available through grants provided from the Fund as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/10.1-2132/'>10.1-2132</a>.</p><p>C. In order to engage stakeholders within each of the Commonwealth's 14 major river basins to develop comprehensive strategic plans to mitigate and prevent local nonpoint source water pollution, the Department may establish the Watershed Coordination Program, hereinafter referred to as "the Program." The Program shall continue the work of watershed roundtables, support citizen stewardship activities, and be coordinated with the agencies of the Secretariat of Natural and Historic Resources, the Department of Forestry, and the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. The Program shall be funded with private funds; however, the Department may assist with the initial costs associated with the development of the Program to the extent that funding is available. The Department may assist in fund-raising efforts to supplement the Fund and provide assistance to the fund-raising efforts of the watershed roundtables. The Program shall strive to provide appropriate incentives for achievements to include public recognition and awards.</p><p>1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0021'>21</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0625'>625</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0626'>626</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0413'>413</a>.</p>