# ยง 18.2-308.08 Denial of a concealed handgun permit; appeal.

<p>A. Only a circuit court judge may deny issuance of a concealed handgun permit to a Virginia resident or domiciliary who has applied for a permit pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-308.04/'>18.2-308.04</a>. Any order denying issuance of a concealed handgun permit shall state the basis for the denial of the permit, including, if applicable, any reason under ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-308.09/'>18.2-308.09</a> that is the basis of the denial, and the clerk shall provide notice, in writing, upon denial of the application, of the applicant's right to an ore tenus hearing and the requirements for perfecting an appeal of such order.</p><p>B. Upon request of the applicant made within 21 days, the court shall place the matter on the docket for an ore tenus hearing. The applicant may be represented by counsel, but counsel shall not be appointed, and the rules of evidence shall apply. The final order of the court shall include the court's findings of fact and conclusions of law.</p><p>C. Any person denied a permit to carry a concealed handgun by the circuit court may appeal to the Court of Appeals. Such person shall file a notice of appeal with the clerk of the circuit court noting an appeal to the Court of Appeals and file his opening brief with the Court of Appeals within 60 days of the expiration of the time for requesting an ore tenus hearing, or if an ore tenus hearing is requested, within 60 days of the entry of the final order of the circuit court following the hearing. The opening brief shall be accompanied by a copy of the original papers filed in the circuit court, including a copy of the order of the circuit court denying the permit. The decision of the Court of Appeals or judge shall be final. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the decision to deny the permit is reversed upon appeal, taxable costs incurred by the person shall be paid by the Commonwealth.</p><p>2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0746'>746</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0489'>489</a>.</p>