# § 45.2-808  Trolley wires and feeder wires.

<p>A. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be installed on the side of the entry opposite the clearance space and any shelter hole, except where the wires are guarded or are installed at least 6.5 feet above the top of the rail.</p><p>B. Trolley-wire hangers shall be so spaced that the wire may become detached from any one hanger without creating a shock hazard.</p><p>C. Trolley wires shall be aligned properly and installed on insulated hangers at least six inches outside the rail.</p><p>D. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be provided with cut-out switches at intervals of not more than 1,500 feet and near the beginning of each branch line.</p><p>E. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be kept taut and shall not be permitted to touch the roof or any rib, timber, or combustible material.</p><p>F. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be guarded adequately at both sides of any door and at every place where miners work or pass under them, unless they are at least 6.5 feet above the top of the rail.</p><p>G. No trolley wires or trolley feeder wires shall extend beyond any open crosscut between an intake and a return airway. All such wires shall be kept at least 150 feet from any active, open pillar workings.</p><p>H. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be guarded, anchored securely, and insulated properly at the ends.</p><p>I. Trolley wires and trolley feeder wires shall be installed only in an intake airway.</p><p>J. No trolley wires or other exposed conductors shall carry more than 300 volts.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 45-82, 45-82.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, § 45.1-78; 1993, c. 442; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, § 45.1-161.187; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256'>256</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>