# ยง 15.2-414 County purchasing agent.

<p>A. The county shall have a county purchasing agent. The county administrator shall, unless and until the board selects a county purchasing agent or designates some other officer to act as county purchasing agent, exercise the powers conferred and perform the duties imposed upon the county purchasing agent.</p><p>B. The county purchasing agent shall, subject to such exceptions as the board may allow, make all purchases for the county and its departments, officers and agencies.</p><p>C. The county purchasing agent may also transfer supplies, materials and equipment between, and sell surplus equipment, materials and supplies not needed by, the departments, officers and agencies of the county.</p><p>D. With the approval of the board, the county purchasing agent may establish specifications or standards for equipment, materials and supplies to be purchased and inspect deliveries to determine their compliance with such specifications and standards.</p><p>E. All purchases and sales by the county purchasing agent shall be made in accordance with Chapter 43 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4300/'>2.2-4300</a> et seq.) of Title 2.2 and under such rules and regulations consistent with Chapter 43 of Title 2.2 as the board provides.</p><p>F. The county purchasing agent shall have charge of such storage rooms and warehouses of the county as the board provides.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-376; 1950, p. 125; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-712; 1972, c. 820; 1982, c. 647; 1997, c. 587.</p>