# § 38.2-3407.15:5 Limit on cost-sharing payments for prescription insulin drugs.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Carrier" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-3407.15/'>38.2-3407.15</a>.</p><p>"Cost-sharing payment" means the total amount a covered person is required to pay at the point of sale in order to receive a prescription drug that is covered under the covered person's health plan.</p><p>"Covered person" means a policyholder, subscriber, participant, or other individual covered by a health plan.</p><p>"Health plan" means any health benefit plan, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/38.2-3438/'>38.2-3438</a>, that provides coverage for a prescription insulin drug.</p><p>"Pharmacy benefits manager" means an entity that engages in the administration or management of prescription drug benefits provided by a carrier for the benefit of its covered persons.</p><p>"Prescription insulin drug" means a prescription drug that contains insulin and is used to treat diabetes.</p><p>"Provider contract" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-3407.15/'>38.2-3407.15</a>.</p><p>B. Every health plan offered by a carrier shall set the cost-sharing payment that a covered person is required to pay for a covered prescription insulin drug at an amount that does not exceed $50 per 30-day supply of the prescription insulin drug, regardless of the amount or type of insulin needed to fill the covered person's prescription.</p><p>C. Nothing in this section shall prevent a carrier from setting a covered person's cost-sharing payment for a covered prescription insulin drug at an amount that is less than the maximum amount permitted pursuant to subsection B.</p><p>D. No provider contract between a carrier or its pharmacy benefits manager and a pharmacy or its contracting agent shall contain a provision (i) authorizing the carrier's pharmacy benefits manager or the pharmacy to charge, (ii) requiring the pharmacy to collect, or (iii) requiring a covered person to make a cost-sharing payment for a covered prescription insulin drug in an amount that exceeds the amount of the cost-sharing payment for the covered prescription insulin drug established by the carrier pursuant to subsection B.</p><p>E. This section shall apply with respect to health plans and provider contracts entered into, amended, extended, or renewed on or after January 1, 2021.</p><p>F. Pursuant to the authority granted by § <a href='/vacode/38.2-223/'>38.2-223</a>, the Commission may adopt such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to implement this section.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>.</p>