# ยง 38.2-3418.3 Coverage for hemophilia and congenital bleeding disorders.

<p>A. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3419/'>38.2-3419</a>, each insurer proposing to issue individual or group accident and sickness insurance policies providing hospital, medical and surgical, or major medical coverage on an expense-incurred basis; each corporation providing individual or group accident and sickness subscription contracts; and each health maintenance organization providing a health care plan for health care services shall provide coverage for hemophilia and congenital bleeding disorders under such policy, contract or plan delivered, issued for delivery or renewed in this Commonwealth on and after July 1, 1998.</p><p>B. For the purpose of this section:</p><p>"Blood infusion equipment" includes, but is not limited to, syringes and needles.</p><p>"Blood product" includes, but is not limited to, Factor VII, Factor VIII, Factor IX, and cryoprecipitate.</p><p>"Hemophilia" means a lifelong hereditary bleeding disorder usually affecting males that results in prolonged bleeding primarily into joints and muscles.</p><p>"Home treatment program" means a program where individuals or family members are trained to provide infusion therapy at home in order to achieve optimal health and cost effectiveness.</p><p>"State-approved hemophilia treatment center" means a hospital or clinic which receives federal or state Maternal and Child Health Bureau, and/or Centers for Disease Control funds to conduct comprehensive care for persons with hemophilia and other congenital bleeding disorders.</p><p>C. The benefits to be provided shall include coverage for expenses incurred in connection with the treatment of routine bleeding episodes associated with hemophilia and other congenital bleeding disorders. The benefits to be provided shall include coverage for the purchase of blood products and blood infusion equipment required for home treatment of routine bleeding episodes associated with hemophilia and other congenital bleeding disorders when the home treatment program is under the supervision of the state-approved hemophilia treatment center.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section shall not apply to short-term travel, accident only, limited or specified disease policies, policies or contracts designed for issuance to persons eligible for coverage under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, known as Medicare, or to any other similar coverage under state or federal governmental plans, or to short-term nonrenewable policies of not more than six months' duration.</p><p>1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0043'>43</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0120'>120</a>.</p>