# ยง 38.2-1845.4 Examinations.

<p>A. Examinations for licenses shall be conducted at least monthly at the times and places prescribed by the Commission. Each applicant shall be required to pass the examination prescribed by the Commission as a condition for licensure unless otherwise exempted.</p><p>B. If the applicant fails to take the examination within 90 calendar days from the date his registration for the examination is accepted, the examination fee shall be forfeited, and the registration shall be considered withdrawn.</p><p>C. If the applicant fails to obtain the appropriate license from the Commission within 183 calendar days from the date he passes the examination, the examination grade shall be considered invalid, and the examination fee and application processing fee shall be forfeited. Such applicant shall be required to reapply for the examination and to satisfy all appropriate prelicensing requirements.</p><p>D. An individual who applies for a resident public adjuster's license in the Commonwealth who was previously licensed as a public adjuster in the individual's home state shall not be required to complete any prelicensing examination. This exemption is only available if the individual is currently licensed in the applicant's home state or if the application is received within 90 calendar days of the cancellation of the applicant's previous license in the applicant's home state and if the applicant's home state issues a certification that, at the time of cancellation, the applicant was in good standing in that state or the state's Producer Database records, maintained by the NAIC, its affiliates, or subsidiaries, indicate that the public adjuster is or was licensed in good standing in that state.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0735'>735</a>.</p>