# § 54.1-3211 Examination.

<p>The Board shall set the necessary standards to be attained in the examinations to entitle the candidate to receive a license to practice optometry.</p><p>The examination shall be given at least semiannually if there are any candidates who have applied to the Board for examination at least 30 days before the date for the examination.</p><p>The examination shall include anatomy; physiology; pathology; general and ocular pharmacology designed to test knowledge of the proper use, characteristics, pharmacological effects, indications, contraindications and emergency care associated with the use of diagnostic pharmaceutical agents; and the use of the appropriate instruments.</p><p>The Board may determine a score that it considers satisfactory on any written examination of the National Board of Examiners in Optometry. The Board may waive its examination for a person who achieves a satisfactory score on the examination of the National Board of Examiners in Optometry.</p><p>Those persons licensed on or before June 30, 1997, to practice optometry in this state but not certified to administer diagnostic pharmaceutical agents may continue to practice optometry but may not administer diagnostic pharmaceutical agents without satisfying the requirements of this section. Those persons licensed after June 30, 1997, shall be considered as certified to administer diagnostic pharmaceutical agents. After June 30, 2004, every person who is initially licensed to practice optometry in Virginia shall meet the qualifications for a TPA-certified optometrist.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 54-380 through 54-382; 1972, c. 824; 1973, c. 90; 1988, c. 765; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0365'>365</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0436'>436</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0744'>744</a>.</p>