# ยง 58.1-603 (Contingent expiration date) Imposition of sales tax.

<p>There is hereby levied and imposed, in addition to all other taxes and fees of every kind now imposed by law, a license or privilege tax upon every person who engages in the business of selling at retail or distributing tangible personal property in this Commonwealth, or who rents or furnishes any of the things or services taxable under this chapter, or who stores for use or consumption in this Commonwealth any item or article of tangible personal property as defined in this chapter, or who leases or rents such property within this Commonwealth, in the amount of 4.3 percent:</p><p>1. Of the gross sales price of each item or article of tangible personal property when sold at retail or distributed in this Commonwealth.</p><p>2. Of the gross proceeds derived from the lease or rental of tangible personal property, where the lease or rental of such property is an established business, or part of an established business, or the same is incidental or germane to such business.</p><p>3. Of the cost price of each item or article of tangible personal property stored in this Commonwealth for use or consumption in this Commonwealth.</p><p>4. (Effective until September 1, 2021) Of the gross proceeds derived from the sale or charges for rooms, lodgings or accommodations furnished to transients as set out in the definition of "retail sale" in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-602/'>58.1-602</a>.</p><p>4. (Effective September 1, 2021) Of the gross proceeds derived from the sale or charges for accommodations furnished to transients as set out in the definition of "retail sale" in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-602/'>58.1-602</a>.</p><p>5. Of the gross sales of any services that are expressly stated as taxable within this chapter.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-441.4; 1966, c. 151; 1984, c. 675; 1986, Sp. Sess., c. 12; 2004, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0766'>766</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0383'>383</a>.</p>