# ยง 2.2-2552 (Expires July 1, 2024) Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman and vice-chairman.

<p>A. The Commission shall consist of 11 members, including three legislative members and eight nonlegislative citizen members. Members shall be appointed as follows: (i) two members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates, (ii) one member of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, (iii) eight nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Commission shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Legislative members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of two years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Legislative members and nonlegislative citizen members may be reappointed. However, no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>C. The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1043'>1043</a>, ยง 2.2-2545.</p>