# § 38.2-3721 Term of credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance.

<p>A. The term of any policy or certificate of credit life insurance or credit accident and sickness insurance shall, subject to acceptance by the insurer, commence on the date when the debtor becomes obligated to the creditor; except that where a group policy provides coverage with respect to existing obligations, the insurance on a debtor with respect to such indebtedness shall commence on the effective date of the policy. Where evidence of insurability is required and such evidence is furnished more than thirty days after the date when the debtor becomes obligated to the creditor, the term of the insurance may commence on the date the insurance company determines the evidence to be satisfactory, and in such event there shall be an appropriate refund or adjustment of any charge to the debtor for insurance. The term of such insurance shall not extend more than fifteen days beyond the scheduled maturity date of the indebtedness except when extended without additional cost to the debtor. In all cases of termination prior to scheduled maturity, a refund shall be paid or credited as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3729/'>38.2-3729</a>.</p><p>B. Renewal or refinancing of the indebtedness. -- If the indebtedness is discharged due to renewal or refinancing prior to the scheduled maturity date, the insurance in force shall be terminated before any new insurance may be issued in connection with the renewed or refinanced indebtedness. In all cases of such termination prior to scheduled maturity, a refund shall be paid or credited to the debtor as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3729/'>38.2-3729</a>. In any renewal or refinancing of the indebtedness, the effective date of the coverage for purposes of application of any policy provision shall be deemed to be the first date on which the debtor became insured under the policy covering the indebtedness which was renewed or refinanced at least to the extent of the remaining amount and duration of coverage in force on the indebtedness that was renewed or refinanced.</p><p>C. Termination of group credit insurance policy. -- 1. If a debtor is covered by a group credit insurance policy providing for the payment of single premiums to the insurer, then provision shall be made by the insurer that in the event of termination of the policy for any reason, insurance coverage with respect to any debtor insured under such policy shall be continued for the entire period for which the single premium has been paid.</p><p>2. If a debtor is covered by a group credit insurance policy providing for the payment of premiums to the insurer on a monthly outstanding balance basis, then the policy shall provide that, in the event of termination of such policy for whatever reason, notice of termination thereof shall be given to the insured debtor at least thirty days prior to the effective date of termination except where replacement of the coverage by the same or another insurer in the same or greater amount takes place without lapse of coverage. The notice required in this subdivision shall be given by the insurer or, at the option of the insurer, by the creditor, in writing, mailed to the insured debtor at the insured debtor's address as shown in the records of the insurer or creditor.</p><p>D. Each credit life insurance or credit accident and sickness insurance policy or certificate shall contain a provision that the insurance may be terminated upon written request of the debtor except if the insurance was required as security for any indebtedness at the time of the credit transaction. If insurance is required, the debtor shall have the right to terminate the insurance by furnishing evidence of other insurance that is at least equal in coverage and protection to the creditor.</p><p>1960, c. 67, § 38.1-482.5; 1982, c. 223, § 38.2-3706; 1986, c. 562; 1992, c. 586.</p>