# § 22.1-30 Certain officers may not act on school board or serve as tie breaker.

<p>A. No state, county, city or town officer, no deputy of any such officer, no member of the governing body of a county, city or town, no employee of a school board, and no father, mother, brother, sister, spouse, son, daughter, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law or brother-in-law of a member of the county governing body may, during his term of office, be appointed as a member of the school board for such county, city or town or as tie breaker for such school board except:</p><p>1. Local directors of social services;</p><p>2. Commissioners in chancery;</p><p>3. Commissioners of accounts;</p><p>4. Registrars of vital records and health statistics;</p><p>5. Notaries public;</p><p>6. Clerks and employees of the federal government in the District of Columbia;</p><p>7. Medical examiners;</p><p>8. Officers and employees of the District of Columbia;</p><p>9. In Northumberland County, oyster inspectors;</p><p>10. In Lunenburg County, members of the county library board and members of the local board of social services;</p><p>11. Auxiliary deputy sheriffs and auxiliary police officers receiving less than five dollars in annual compensation;</p><p>12. Members of the town councils serving towns within Craig, Giles and Wise Counties; and</p><p>13. Public defenders.</p><p>B. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the election of deputies of constitutional officers to school board membership, consistent with federal law and regulation.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 22-69, 22-92; 1973, c. 63; 1980, c. 559; 1986, c. 260; 1990, c. 111; 1991, cc. 140, 163; 1993, c. 352; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0723'>723</a>; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0290'>290</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>.</p>