# § 19.2-311 Indeterminate commitment to Department of Corrections in certain cases; duration and character of commitment; concurrence by Department.

<p>A. The judge, after a finding of guilt, when fixing punishment in those cases specifically enumerated in subsection B, may, in his discretion, in lieu of imposing any other penalty provided by law and, with consent of the person convicted, commit such person for a period of four years, which commitment shall be indeterminate in character. In addition, the court shall impose a period of confinement which shall be suspended. Subject to the provisions of subsection C, such persons shall be committed to the Department of Corrections for confinement in a state facility for youthful offenders established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/53.1-63/'>53.1-63</a>. Such confinement shall be followed by at least one and one-half years of supervisory parole, conditioned on good behavior. The sentence of indeterminate commitment and eligibility for continuous evaluation and parole under § <a href='/vacode/19.2-313/'>19.2-313</a> shall remain in effect but eligibility for use of programs and facilities established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/53.1-63/'>53.1-63</a> shall lapse if such person (i) exhibits intractable behavior as defined in § <a href='/vacode/53.1-66/'>53.1-66</a> or (ii) is convicted of a second criminal offense which is a felony. A sentence imposed for any second criminal offense shall run consecutively with the indeterminate sentence.</p><p>B. The provisions of subsection A shall be applicable to first convictions in which the person convicted:</p><p>1. Committed the offense of which convicted before becoming 21 years of age;</p><p>2. Was convicted of a felony offense other than any of the following: aggravated murder, murder in the first degree or murder in the second degree or a violation of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-61/'>18.2-61</a>, <a href='/vacode/18.2-67.1/'>18.2-67.1</a>, or <a href='/vacode/18.2-67.2/'>18.2-67.2</a> or subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-67.3/'>18.2-67.3</a>; and</p><p>3. Is considered by the judge to be capable of returning to society as a productive citizen following a reasonable amount of rehabilitation.</p><p>C. Subsequent to a finding of guilt and prior to fixing punishment, the Department of Corrections shall, concurrently with the evaluation required by § <a href='/vacode/19.2-316/'>19.2-316</a>, review all aspects of the case to determine whether (i) such defendant is physically and emotionally suitable for the program, (ii) such indeterminate sentence of commitment is in the best interest of the Commonwealth and of the person convicted, and (iii) facilities are available for the confinement of such person. After the review such person shall be again brought before the court, which shall review the findings of the Department. The court may impose a sentence as authorized in subsection A, or any other penalty provided by law.</p><p>D. Upon the defendant's failure to complete the program established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/53.1-63/'>53.1-63</a> or to comply with the terms and conditions through no fault of his own, the defendant shall be brought before the court for hearing. Notwithstanding the provisions for pronouncement of sentence as set forth in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-306/'>19.2-306</a>, the court, after hearing, may pronounce whatever sentence was originally imposed, pronounce a reduced sentence, or impose such other terms and conditions of probation as it deems appropriate.</p><p>Code 1950, § 19.1-295.1; 1966, c. 579; 1974, cc. 44, 45; 1975, c. 495; 1976, c. 498; 1980, c. 531; 1988, c. 38; 1990, c. 701; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0859'>859</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0949'>949</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0755'>755</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0914'>914</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0668'>668</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0690'>690</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0344'>344</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0345'>345</a>.</p>