# ยง 22.1-166 Purchase and sale of local school bonds.

<p>The Authority is authorized to purchase local school bonds with any funds of the Authority available for such purpose, at public or private sale and for such price and on such terms as it shall determine. The Authority may pledge to the payment of the interest on and the principal of any bonds of the Authority all or any part of the local school bonds so purchased, including payments of principal and interest thereon as they shall become due. The Authority may also, subject to any such pledge, sell any such local school bonds so purchased and apply the proceeds of such sale in the purchase of other like local school bonds or for such purpose and in such manner as shall be provided by any resolution authorizing the issuance of bonds of the Authority, or the Authority may transfer such proceeds to the Literary Fund. For the purpose of Article VII, Section 10(b) of the Constitution of Virginia, the Authority shall be deemed a state agency authorized to purchase bonds issued with the consent of the school board and the governing body of the county by or on behalf of a county or district thereof for capital projects for school purposes.</p><p>Notwithstanding the provisions of any general or special law to the contrary, any city completely surrounded by a county having the urban county executive form of government may finance capital projects for school purposes through the Authority without the requirement of a voter referendum if the financing for the capital project is requested by both the city council and the school board.</p><p>The proceeds of all local school bonds issued pursuant to this chapter prior to July 1, 1975, may be used for any capital project for public schools as provided in the resolution by which their issuance was authorized.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 22-29.6; 1962, c. 194; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 87; 1972, c. 745; 1975, c. 434; 1976, c. 491; 1980, c. 559; 1989, c. 456.</p>