# § 38.2-1865.5 Requirement to report to Commission.

<p>A. Each licensed viatical settlement broker shall report, in writing, any change in business or residence address, email address, or name within 30 calendar days to the Commission.</p><p>B. In addition to the requirements of §§ <a href='/vacode/59.1-69/'>59.1-69</a> and <a href='/vacode/59.1-70/'>59.1-70</a>, any individual or business entity licensed as a viatical settlement broker in the Commonwealth and operating under an assumed or fictitious name shall notify the Commission, at the earlier of the time the application for a viatical settlement broker license is filed or within 30 calendar days from the date the assumed or fictitious name is adopted, setting forth the name under which the viatical settlement broker intends to operate in Virginia. The Commission shall also be notified within 30 calendar days from the date of cessation of the use of such assumed or fictitious name.</p><p>C. Each licensed viatical settlement broker convicted of a felony shall report within 30 calendar days to the Commission the facts and circumstances regarding the criminal conviction.</p><p>D. Each licensed viatical settlement broker shall report to the Commission within 30 calendar days of the final disposition of the matter any administrative action taken against him in another jurisdiction or by another governmental agency in the Commonwealth. Such report shall include a copy of the order, consent to order, or other relevant legal documents.</p><p>E. The license authority of any licensed resident viatical settlement broker shall terminate immediately when such viatical settlement broker has moved his residence from the Commonwealth, whether or not the Commission has been notified of such move.</p><p>F. The license authority of any business entity licensed as a viatical settlement broker shall terminate immediately if the designated licensed viatical settlement broker responsible for the business entity's compliance with the insurance laws, rules, and regulations of the Commonwealth pursuant to subdivision E 2 of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1865.1/'>38.2-1865.1</a> is removed for any reason and a new responsible viatical settlement broker has not been designated and the Commission notified within 30 calendar days of such removal and of the new designated responsible viatical settlement broker.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0552'>552</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0675'>675</a>.</p>