# ยง 46.2-754 Local motor vehicle licenses in Arlington County.

<p>Arlington County may by ordinance require the owner of any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer to obtain and display a license from the county licensing authority designated by the ordinance. The ordinance may also require that the license be obtained only after showing satisfactory evidence that all personal property taxes on the motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer have been paid, and that any delinquent personal property taxes assessed or assessable against the vehicle have been paid. The ordinance may also prohibit the display of the license after its expiration date and may prescribe the form of the license. This license requirement shall be imposed in such manner, on such basis, for such period, and subject to proration for fractional periods of years as the governing body requires.</p><p>The situs for the imposition of the license requirement under the ordinance shall be the locality in which the vehicle is normally garaged, stored, or parked. If it cannot be determined where it is normally garaged, stored, or parked, the situs shall be the domicile of its owner.</p><p>The ordinance may provide that no motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer may be licensed by the county unless all fines owed by the owner of the vehicle for violation of the county's parking ordinances have been paid.</p><p>The ordinance may provide that a violation of such ordinance constitutes a misdemeanor the penalty for which shall not exceed that of a Class 4 misdemeanor.</p><p>1988, c. 451, ยง 46.1-65.2; 1989, c. 727.</p>