# ยง 18.2-265.7 Sale of the methamphetamine precursors ephedrine or related compounds; penalty.

<p>A. The sale of any product containing ephedrine or related compounds sold by a pharmacy or retail distributor shall be limited to no more than 3.6 grams per day and 9 grams per 30-day period per individual customer. The limits shall apply to the total amount of base ephedrine or related compounds contained in the products and not to the overall weight of the products.</p><p>B. Ephedrine or related compounds shall only be displayed for sale behind a store counter that is not accessible to consumers or in a locked case that requires assistance by a store employee for customer access.</p><p>C. Any person purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring ephedrine or related compounds shall, prior to taking possession, present photo identification issued by a government or an educational institution.</p><p>D. The pharmacy or retail distributor shall maintain a written log or electronic system with the purchaser's name and address, birth date, and signature; the product name and quantity sold; and the date and time of the transaction. Unless exempt under subsection B of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-265.8/'>18.2-265.8</a> or ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-265.11/'>18.2-265.11</a>, the pharmacy or retail distributor shall use the electronic recordkeeping and monitoring system to report all nonprescription sales of any product containing ephedrine or related compounds.</p><p>E. The purchaser shall sign the record acknowledging an understanding of the applicable sales limit and that providing false statements or misrepresentations may subject the purchaser to criminal penalties under ยง 1001 of Title 18 of the United States Code.</p><p>F. The pharmacy or retail distributor shall maintain records of all sales required to be entered into the electronic system or written log for a period of two years from the date of the last entry.</p><p>G. The provisions of this article do not apply to sales of ephedrine or related compounds pursuant to a valid prescription.</p><p>H. Any person who willfully violates this section is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0160'>160</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0252'>252</a>.</p>