# § 15.2-5103 Ordinance, agreement or resolution creating authority to include articles of incorporation.

<p>A. The ordinance, agreement or resolution creating an authority shall include articles of incorporation which shall set forth:</p><p>1. The name of the authority and address of its principal office.</p><p>2. The name of each participating locality and the names, addresses and terms of office of the first members of the board of the authority.</p><p>3. The purposes for which the authority is being created and, to the extent that the governing body of the locality determines to be practicable, preliminary estimates of capital costs, proposals for any specific projects to be undertaken by the authority, and preliminary estimates of initial rates for services of such projects as certified by responsible engineers.</p><p>4. If there is more than one participating locality, the number of board members who shall exercise the powers of the authority and the number from each participating locality.</p><p>B. Any such ordinance, agreement or resolution that does not set forth the information required in subdivision 3 of subsection A regarding capital cost estimates, project proposals and project service rate estimates shall set forth a finding by the governing body that inclusion of such information is impracticable.</p><p>C. Any ordinance, agreement or resolution adopted pursuant to §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5152/'>15.2-5152</a> through <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5157/'>15.2-5157</a> shall provide that any bonds issued by the community development authority shall be a debt of the authority, not the local government. Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance which establishes the authority, the local government shall not retire any part of the bonds or pay any debt service of an authority out of revenues or funds derived from sources other than those set out in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5158/'>15.2-5158</a>, except that, where the authority finances improvements not contemplated by the original ordinance, the local government may, by ordinance or resolution, make such provisions for repayment as are otherwise permitted under general law. This subsection shall have no effect upon authorities formed pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5102/'>15.2-5102</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-764.4; 1950, p. 1315; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-1242; 1972, cc. 370, 544; 1984, c. 239; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0363'>363</a>, 587.</p>