# ยง 32.1-111.6 Emergency medical services agency license; emergency medical services vehicle permits.

<p>A. No person shall operate, conduct, maintain, or profess to be an emergency medical services agency without a valid license issued by the Commissioner for such emergency medical services agency and a valid permit for each emergency medical services vehicle used by such emergency medical services agency.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall issue an original or renewal license for an emergency medical services agency or renewal permit for an emergency medical services vehicle that meets all requirements set forth in this article and in the regulations of the Board, upon application, on forms and according to procedures established by the Board. Licenses and permits shall be valid for a period specified by the Board, not to exceed two years.</p><p>C. The Commissioner may issue (i) temporary licenses for emergency medical services agencies not meeting required standards, valid for a period not to exceed 60 days, and (ii) temporary permits for emergency medical services vehicles not meeting required standards, valid for a period of 90 days from the end of the month of issue, when the public interest will be served thereby.</p><p>D. The issuance of a license or permit in accordance with this section shall not be construed to authorize any emergency medical services agency to operate any emergency medical services vehicle without a franchise, license, or permit in any county or municipality that has enacted an ordinance pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/32.1-111.14/'>32.1-111.14</a> making it unlawful to do so.</p><p>E. The word "ambulance" shall not appear on any vehicle, vessel, or aircraft that does not hold a valid permit as an emergency medical services vehicle.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0899'>899</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0279'>279</a>.</p>