# § 45.2-1120  Revocation of certificates.

<p>A. The Department may revoke any certificate upon finding that (i) the holder has (a) been intoxicated while on duty; (b) neglected his duties; (c) violated any provision of the Act or any other mineral mining law of the Commonwealth, including any regulation adopted by the Department; or (d) used any controlled substance without the prescription of a licensed physician or (ii) other sufficient cause exists.</p><p>B. The Department may act to revoke any certificate upon the presentation of written charges by (i) the Director of the Division or any other employee of the Department; (ii) the operator of a mine at which such person is employed; (iii) an independent contractor working at such mine; or (iv) 10 persons working at the mine at which such person is employed or, if fewer than 10 persons are working at the mine, a majority of the workers at the mine.</p><p>C. Prior to revoking a certificate, the Department shall give due notice to the holder of the certificate and conduct a hearing. Any hearing shall be conducted in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/2.2-4020/'>2.2-4020</a> unless the parties agree to informal proceedings. The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer as provided in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-4024/'>2.2-4024</a>.</p><p>D. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Department is entitled to judicial review of such decision. Appeals from such decisions shall be in accordance with Article 5 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4025/'>2.2-4025</a> et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390'>390</a>, § 45.1-161.292:26; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0695'>695</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>