# ยง 2.2-1515 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly shows otherwise, the term or phrase:</p><p>"Advisory Committee" means the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan Advisory Committee established pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1516/'>2.2-1516</a>.</p><p>"Capital outlay project" means acquisition of real property, including buildings or plant or machinery or equipment, or new construction or improvements related to state-owned real property, buildings, plant, or machinery or equipment including plans therefor. It shall include any improvements to real property leased for use by a state agency or public educational institution and not owned by the Commonwealth, when such improvements are financed by public funds and become state property upon the expiration of the lease. Capital outlay projects do not include projects that have been included in the Commonwealth Transportation Board's Six-Year Improvement Program.</p><p>"Construction phase" means the following steps, as set out in the Construction and Professional Services Manual of the Department of General Services: preparation of final working drawings and specifications, advertising for a sealed bid or proposal, awarding a contract pursuant to law, and actual construction of a project.</p><p>"Detailed planning" means the preparation of architectural and engineering documents up to the preliminary design stage, as defined in the Construction and Professional Services Manual of the Department of General Services.</p><p>"Pre-planning" means a process meant to obtain a more detailed definition and cost estimate of a project. It may include the following elements, as appropriate:</p><p>1. Statement of program definition including functional space requirements, estimates of gross and net square footage, and functional adjacency requirements;</p><p>2. Analysis of program execution options, including review of new construction versus renovation alternatives, necessary phasing or sequencing of the project, and coordination with other ongoing or proposed capital projects;</p><p>3. Site analysis, including options considered and, for the site chosen, any specific issues related to topography, utilities, or environment;</p><p>4. Presentation, including site plan, conceptual floor plans and elevations, and conceptual exterior;</p><p>5. Identification of any Uniform Statewide Building Code compliance or permit requirements unique to the project; or</p><p>6. Cost estimate for the project to include total cost of the project, construction cost for the project, total cost per square foot, construction cost per square foot, costing methodology, and identification of any factors unique to the project that may impact overall project cost.</p><p>"Project" means a capital outlay project included in the six-year capital outlay plan described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1518/'>2.2-1518</a>.</p><p>"Value engineering" means a systematic process of review and analysis of a project by a team of appropriate professionals licensed in accordance with Chapter 4 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-400/'>54.1-400</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1. As a result of such review and analysis, the team may recommend changes to improve the project's quality or to reduce the total project cost without reducing the overall quality or function of the project.</p><p>2008, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?082+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?082+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>.</p>