# ยง 6.2-1300 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Capital" means the sum of share accounts, reserves, and undivided earnings of a credit union.</p><p>"Corporate credit union" means a credit union whose field of membership consists primarily of other credit unions.</p><p>"Credit union" means a cooperative, nonprofit corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth and authorized to do business under this chapter for the purposes of encouraging thrift among its members, creating a source of credit at fair and reasonable rates of interest, providing an opportunity for its members to use and control their own money on a democratic basis in order to improve their economic and social condition, and conducting any other business, engaging in any other activity, and providing any other service that may be of benefit to its members, consistent with the provisions of this chapter and any regulations adopted by the Commission under this chapter.</p><p>"Credit union service organization" means any organization, corporation, or association, if (i) the membership or ownership, as the case may be, of such organization, corporation, or association is primarily confined or restricted to credit unions or organizations of credit unions and (ii) the purpose for which such organization, corporation, or association is organized is to strengthen or advance the development of credit unions or credit union organizations.</p><p>"Household" means those individuals who are related by blood, marriage, or other recognized family relationship and who live in the same house or other place of residence.</p><p>"Immediate family" means the individuals in a household who are related by blood, marriage, or other recognized family relationship. "Immediate family" also includes, regardless of their place of residence, the children, grandchildren, grandparents, parents, siblings, and spouse of an individual.</p><p>"Insuring organization" means an organization that provides aid and financial assistance to credit unions that are in the process of liquidation or are incurring financial difficulty in order that the share accounts in the credit unions shall be protected or guaranteed against loss up to a specified limit for each account, such as the National Credit Union Administration Share Insurance Fund, a corporation organized under Article 5 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1331/'>6.2-1331</a> et seq.), or any other share insurance provider approved by the Commission.</p><p>"Member," with respect to a credit union, or "credit union member," means any person holding a share account in accordance with standards specified by the credit union. "Member" may also be used to refer to an individual or other entity that is included within a group or a community, or to an individual who is part of a household or family.</p><p>"Reserves" means the total of allowances for loan losses, regular, special, and any other type of funds held in reserve.</p><p>"Retained earnings" means undivided earnings, regular reserve, reserve for contingencies, supplemental reserves, reserves for losses, and other appropriations from undivided earnings as designated by management or the Bureau.</p><p>"Share account" means a balance held by a credit union and established by a member in accordance with standards specified by the credit union, including balances designated as shares, share certificates, share draft accounts, or other names.</p><p>"Shares" means the interest of a member having an account in a credit union.</p><p>1990, c. 373, ยง 6.1-225.2; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0063'>63</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0016'>16</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0092'>92</a>.</p>