# § 2.2-2203.3 Employees; employment; personnel rules.

<p>A. Employees of the Authority shall be employed on such terms and conditions as established by the Board. The Board shall develop and adopt personnel rules, policies, and procedures to give its employees grievance rights, ensure that employment decisions shall be based upon the merit and fitness of applicants, and prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin.</p><p>B. Any employee of the Virginia Commercial Space Flight Authority who is a member of any plan providing health insurance coverage pursuant to Chapter 28 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2800/'>2.2-2800</a> et seq.) shall continue to be a member of such health insurance plan under the same terms and conditions. Notwithstanding subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2818/'>2.2-2818</a>, the costs of providing health insurance coverage to such employees who elect to continue to be members of the state employees' health insurance plan shall be paid by the Authority. Alternatively, an employee may elect to become a member of any health insurance plan established by the Authority. The Authority is authorized to (i) establish a health insurance plan for the benefit of its employees and (ii) enter into agreements with the Department of Human Resource Management providing for the coverage of its employees under the state employees' health insurance plan, provided that such agreements require the Authority to pay the costs of providing health insurance coverage under such plan.</p><p>C. Any retired employee of the Virginia Commercial Space Flight Authority shall be eligible to receive the health insurance credit set forth in § <a href='/vacode/51.1-1400/'>51.1-1400</a>, provided the retired employee meets the eligibility criteria set forth in that section.</p><p>D. The Authority is hereby authorized to establish one or more retirement plans for the benefit of its employees (the Authority retirement plan). For purposes of such plans, the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/51.1-126.4/'>51.1-126.4</a> shall apply, mutatis mutandis. Any Authority employee who is a member of the Virginia Retirement System or other retirement plan as authorized by Article 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/51.1-125/'>51.1-125</a> et seq.) of Chapter 1 of Title 51.1 (the statutory optional retirement plan) at the time the Authority retirement plan becomes effective shall continue to be a member of the Virginia Retirement System or the statutory optional retirement plan under the same terms and conditions, unless such employee elects to become a member of the Authority retirement plan. For purposes of this subsection, the "Virginia Retirement System" shall include any hybrid retirement program established under Title 51.1.</p><p>The following rules shall apply:</p><p>1. The Authority shall collect and pay all employee and employer contributions to the Virginia Retirement System or the statutory optional retirement plan for retirement and group life insurance in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/51.1-124.1/'>51.1-124.1</a> et seq.) of Title 51.1 for any employee who elects to remain a member of the Virginia Retirement System or a statutory optional retirement plan.</p><p>2. Employees who elect to become members of the Authority retirement plan shall be given full credit for their creditable service as defined in § <a href='/vacode/51.1-124.3/'>51.1-124.3</a> and vesting and benefit accrual under the Authority retirement plan. For any such employee, employment with the Authority shall be treated as employment with any nonparticipating employer for purposes of the Virginia Retirement System or any statutory optional retirement plan.</p><p>3. For employees who elect to become members of the Authority retirement plan, the Virginia Retirement System or the statutory optional retirement plan, as applicable, shall transfer to the Authority retirement plan assets equal to the actuarially determined present value of the accrued basic benefits for such employees as of the transfer date. For purposes hereof, "basic benefits" means the benefits accrued under the Virginia Retirement System or under the statutory optional retirement plan based on creditable service and average final compensation as defined in § <a href='/vacode/51.1-124.3/'>51.1-124.3</a>. The actuarial present value shall be determined by using the same actuarial factors and assumptions used in determining the funding needs of the Virginia Retirement System or the statutory optional retirement plan so that the transfer of assets to the Authority retirement plan will have no effect on the funded status and financial stability of the Virginia Retirement System or the statutory optional retirement plan. The Authority shall reimburse the Virginia Retirement System for the cost of actuarial services necessary to determine the present value of the accrued basic benefit of employees who transfer to an Authority retirement plan.</p><p>4. The Authority may provide that employees of the Authority who are eligible to participate in any deferred compensation plan sponsored by the Authority shall be enrolled automatically in such plan, unless such employee elects, in a manner prescribed by the Board of the Authority, not to participate. The amount of the deferral under the automatic enrollment and the group of employees to which the automatic enrollment shall apply shall be set by the Board, provided, however, that such employees are provided the opportunity to increase or decrease the amount of the deferral in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.</p><p>E. The Authority is hereby authorized to establish a plan providing short-term disability and long-term disability benefits for its employees.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0779'>779</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0817'>817</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1137'>1137</a>.</p>