# ยง 9.1-1400 Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Fund and Program.

<p>A. For the purposes of this chapter:</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Criminal Justice Services.</p><p>"Fund" means the Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Fund.</p><p>"Program" means the Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Program.</p><p>B. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All funds appropriated for such purpose and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on its behalf shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for purposes of (i) awarding grants on a competitive basis through the Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Program established pursuant to subsection C or (ii) implementing and administering the Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Program. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director of the Department.</p><p>C. The Youth and Gang Violence Prevention Grant Program is hereby established for the purpose of awarding grants on a competitive basis from such funds as may be available from the Fund to the Cities of Hampton, Newport News, Norfolk, Portsmouth, Richmond, and Roanoke for the purpose of performing community assessments for youth and gang violence prevention. The program shall be administered by the Department. In administering the program, the Department shall establish and publish guidelines and criteria for grant awards, including guidelines and criteria governing agreements between the Department and grant recipients relating to conducting community assessments for youth and gang violence prevention. The Department shall oversee each grant awarded through the program and ensure thorough reporting on each such grant.</p><p>D. Grants shall be awarded in an amount of $25,000 to each city to perform a community assessment for youth and gang violence prevention. No more than $150,000 per year shall be allocated by the program.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0392'>392</a>.</p>