# ยง 58.1-4102 Powers and duties of the Board; regulations.

<p>The Board shall have the power and duty to:</p><p>1. Issue permits and licenses under this chapter and supervise all gaming operations licensed under the provisions of this chapter, including all persons conducting or participating in any gaming operation. The Board shall employ such persons to be present during gaming operations as are necessary to ensure that such gaming operations are conducted with order and the highest degree of integrity.</p><p>2. Adopt regulations regarding the conditions under which casino gaming shall be conducted in the Commonwealth and all such other regulations it deems necessary and appropriate to further the purposes of this chapter.</p><p>3. Issue an operator's license only to a person who meets the criteria of ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-4107/'>58.1-4107</a>.</p><p>4. Issue subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses before the Board, administer oaths, and compel production of records or other documents and testimony of such witnesses whenever in the judgment of the Board it is necessary to do so for the effectual discharge of its duties.</p><p>5. Order such audits as it deems necessary and desirable.</p><p>6. Provide for the withholding of the applicable amount of state and federal income tax of persons claiming a prize or payoff for winning a game and establish the thresholds for such withholdings.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1197'>1197</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1248'>1248</a>.</p>