# § 8.01-543 Issue of other attachments on original petition.

<p>Upon the written application of the plaintiff, his agent or attorney, other attachments founded on the original petition may be issued from time to time by the clerk of the court in which the original attachment is pending, and the same may be directed, executed, and returned in like manner as an original attachment. However, the clerk shall not issue an attachment where new or additional grounds of attachment are relied upon or where any ship, boat or vessel of more than twenty tons is sought to be attached.</p><p>If new or additional grounds of attachment are relied on, the plaintiff may amend his petition in accordance with Rule of Court 1:8 according to the facts and swear to the same. Except as otherwise provided in this section, an additional attachment as prayed for shall be issued by a judge or magistrate only upon his determination that (i) there is reasonable cause to believe that the grounds for attachment may exist and (ii) that the amended petition complies with §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-534/'>8.01-534</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-537/'>8.01-537</a>. Where any ship, boat, or other vessel of more than twenty tons is sought to be attached, a judge or magistrate shall issue the additional attachment only on his determination that § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-538/'>8.01-538</a> has been complied with. The cause shall proceed, under the provisions of this chapter, upon the petition as amended.</p><p>The court shall adjudge the costs of such attachments as it deems proper.</p><p>The following, or its equivalent, shall be a sufficient form of application for an additional attachment:</p><p>To A.B., clerk of the __________ court of __________ county (or city): In the case of __________ v. __________, on an attachment, an additional attachment and summons is requested to be issued against __________ X.Y. (or X.Y. by H., attorney or agent, as the case may be).</p><p>Code 1950, § 8-530; 1977, c. 617; 1984, c. 646.</p>