# § 45.2-1003  Authority and duties of Director.

<p>A. The authority to adopt regulations necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter is vested in the Director. Such regulations shall be consistent with regulations adopted by the Secretary pursuant to the federal act or in conformity with any court ruling construing such act. The Director may adopt by regulation definitions other than those provided in § <a href='/vacode/45.2-1000/'>45.2-1000</a> as necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter. Unless otherwise directed by law, in adopting regulations, the Director shall comply with the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.) and the Virginia Register Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4100/'>2.2-4100</a> et seq.).</p><p>B. In addition to the adoption of regulations under this chapter, the Director may issue or distribute to the public interpretative, advisory, or procedural bulletins pertaining to permit applications or to matters reasonably related thereto without following any of the procedures set forth in the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). Such materials shall be clearly designated as to their nature, shall be provided solely for purposes of public information and education, and shall not have the force of regulations.</p><p>C. The authority to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter is vested in the Director. In administering and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, the Director shall exercise the following powers in addition to any other powers conferred upon him by law:</p><p>1. To supervise the administration and enforcement of this chapter; to make investigations and inspections necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter; to conduct hearings, administer oaths, issue subpoenas, and compel the attendance of witnesses and production of written or printed material as provided for in this chapter; to issue orders and notices of violation; to review and vacate or modify or approve orders and decisions; and to order the suspension, revocation, or withholding of any permit for failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or any regulation adopted hereunder;</p><p>2. To administer the program for the purchase and reclamation of abandoned and unreclaimed mine areas pursuant to Article 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/45.2-1031/'>45.2-1031</a> et seq.);</p><p>3. To encourage and conduct investigations, research, experiments, and demonstrations and to collect and disseminate information relating to coal surface mining and reclamation of lands and waters affected by coal surface mining;</p><p>4. To receive any federal, state, or other funds and to enter into any contracts for which funds are available to carry out the purposes of this chapter; and</p><p>5. To enter into cooperative agreements with the Secretary to regulate coal surface mining on federal lands.</p><p>D. The Division of Mined Land Repurposing shall have the responsibilities provided under this chapter and such duties and responsibilities as the Director may assign or as may be provided for in regulations adopted by the Director.</p><p>1979, c. 290, § 45.1-230; 1982, c. 425; 1984, c. 590; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0532'>532</a>.</p>