# § 16.1-344 Involuntary commitment; hearing.

<p>A. The court shall summon to the hearing all material witnesses requested by either the minor or the petitioner. All testimony shall be under oath. The rules of evidence shall apply. The petitioner, minor and, with leave of court for good cause shown, any other person shall be given the opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The hearing shall be closed to the public unless the minor and petitioner request that it be open.</p><p>B. At the commencement of the hearing involving a minor 14 years of age or older, the court shall inform the minor whose involuntary commitment is being sought of his right to be voluntarily admitted for inpatient treatment as provided for in § <a href='/vacode/16.1-338/'>16.1-338</a> and shall afford the minor an opportunity for voluntary admission, provided that the minor's parent consents to such voluntary admission. The court shall advise the minor whose involuntary commitment is being sought that if the minor chooses to be voluntarily admitted pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/16.1-338/'>16.1-338</a>, such minor will be prohibited from possessing, purchasing, or transporting a firearm pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/18.2-308.1:3/'>18.2-308.1:3</a>. In determining whether a minor is capable of consenting to voluntary admission, the court may consider evidence regarding the minor's past compliance or noncompliance with treatment.</p><p>C. An employee or a designee of the community services board that arranged for the evaluation of the minor shall attend the hearing in person or, if physical attendance is not practicable, shall participate in the hearing through a two-way electronic video and audio or telephonic communication system as authorized in § <a href='/vacode/16.1-345.1/'>16.1-345.1</a>. If (i) the minor does not reside in the jurisdiction served by the juvenile and domestic relations district court that conducts the hearing and (ii) the minor is being considered for mandatory outpatient treatment pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/16.1-345.2/'>16.1-345.2</a>, an employee or designee of the community services board serving the area where the minor resides shall also attend the hearing in person or, if physical attendance is not practicable, shall participate in the hearing through a two-way electronic video and audio or telephonic communication system as authorized in § <a href='/vacode/16.1-345.1/'>16.1-345.1</a>. The employee or designee of the community services board serving the area where the minor resides may, instead of attending the hearing, make arrangements with the community services board that arranged for the evaluation of the minor to present on its behalf the recommendations for a specific course of treatment and programs for the provision of mandatory outpatient treatment required by subsection C of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-345.2/'>16.1-345.2</a> and the initial mandatory outpatient treatment plan required by subsection D of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-345.2/'>16.1-345.2</a>. When a community services board attends the hearing on behalf of the community services board serving the area where the minor resides, the attending community services board shall inform the community services board serving the area where the minor resides of the disposition of the matter upon the conclusion of the hearing. In addition, the attending community services board shall transmit the disposition through certified mail, personal delivery, facsimile with return receipt acknowledged, or other electronic means to the community services board serving the area where the minor resides. Any employee or designee of the community services board attending or participating in the hearing shall not be excluded from the hearing pursuant to an order of sequestration of witnesses.</p><p>At least 12 hours prior to the hearing, the court shall provide the time and location of the hearing to the community services board that arranged for the evaluation of the minor. If the community services board will be present by telephonic means, the court shall provide the telephone number to the board.</p><p>1990, c. 975; 1992, c. 539; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0455'>455</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0555'>555</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0778'>778</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0825'>825</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0846'>846</a>.</p>