# § 30-155 Responsibilities as to administrative law; appointment of Administrative Law Advisory Committee; staff.

<p>A. In conjunction with the responsibility granted to the Commission for publishing and maintaining the Virginia Administrative Code as set forth in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-146/'>30-146</a>, the Commission shall continually monitor the operation of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.) and the Virginia Register Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4100/'>2.2-4100</a> et seq.) to ensure that those laws provide the most practical means to administrative agencies of the Commonwealth for the promulgation, amendment and repeal of administrative law within the powers granted to such agencies by the General Assembly, and to recommend from time to time such changes as it deems appropriate.</p><p>B. The Commission may appoint an Administrative Law Advisory Committee to assist the Commission in fulfilling its responsibilities under subsection A. The chair of the Advisory Committee may be a member of and shall be appointed by the Commission.</p><p>1. The Advisory Committee shall be a legislative branch agency and may consist of representatives from state agencies, the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court, the regulated communities, consumer and other public interest groups, local governments, the bar and the academic community. The number of members shall be determined by the Commission but shall not exceed 12. Members shall serve two-year terms and shall be reimbursed for their expenses incurred in attending meetings and other functions of the Advisory Committee.</p><p>2. The Advisory Committee shall submit an annual work plan and budget to the Commission for approval. Funds necessary to support any such budget approved by the Commission shall be paid from sums appropriated to the Commission. The Commission may authorize the Advisory Committee to undertake research projects, hire consultants, sponsor conferences, hold public hearings, conduct surveys and engage in other efforts consistent with assisting the Commission in fulfilling its responsibilities under subsection A. The Advisory Committee shall report its findings and recommendations annually to the Code Commission, and that report shall be forwarded to the Governor and the General Assembly.</p><p>3. Staff assistance shall be provided to the Advisory Committee by the Division of Legislative Services.</p><p>1983, c. 260, § 9-77.12; 1992, c. 216; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0318'>318</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0157'>157</a>.</p>