# ยง 62.1-139 Forms of accounts and records; annual report.

<p>A. The accounts and records of the Authority showing the receipt and disbursement of funds from whatever source derived shall be in a form prescribed by governmental generally accepted accounting principles. Such accounts shall correspond as nearly as possible to the accounts and records for such matters maintained by enterprises.</p><p>B. The accounts of the Authority shall be audited annually by a certified public accounting firm selected by the Auditor of Public Accounts with the assistance of the Authority through a process of competitive negotiation. The cost of such audit and review shall be borne by the Authority.</p><p>C. The General Assembly may request the Auditor of Public Accounts to conduct audits at any time.</p><p>D. The Authority shall submit an annual report to the Governor and General Assembly on or before November 1 of each year. Such report shall contain the audited annual financial statements of the Authority for the year ending the preceding June 30.</p><p>E. The Authority shall submit a detailed annual operating plan and budget to the Secretary of Transportation and the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget by November 1 of each year. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the form and content of the operating plan and budget shall be determined by the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget and shall include information on salaries, expenditures, indebtedness, and other information as determined by the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget.</p><p>F. The Board of Commissioners, the General Assembly, or the Governor may at any time request that the Office of the Inspector General, created pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-308/'>2.2-308</a>, review any area of the Authority's finances or operations.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 62-106.11; 1954, c. 667; 1968, c. 659; 1984, c. 734; 1985, c. 146; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0650'>650</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0846'>846</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0849'>849</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0762'>762</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>