# ยง 32.1-127.1:04 Use or disclosure of certain protected health information required.

<p>A. The coordination of prevention and control of disease, injury, or disability and the delivery of health care benefits are hereby declared to be (i) necessary public health activities; (ii) necessary health oversight activities for the integrity of the health care system; and (iii) necessary to prevent serious harm and serious threats to the health and safety of individuals and the public.</p><p>B. The Departments of Health, Medical Assistance Services, Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, and Social Services, and the Departments for Aging and Rehabilitative Services, the Blind and Vision Impaired, and the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing, or any successors in interest thereof shall establish a secure system for sharing protected health information that may be necessary for the coordination of prevention and control of disease, injury, or disability and for the delivery of health care benefits when such protected information concerns individuals who (i) have contracted a reportable disease, including exposure to a toxic substance, as required by the Board of Health pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-35/'>32.1-35</a> or other disease or disability required to be reported by law; (ii) are the subjects of public health surveillance, public health investigations, or public health interventions or are applicants for or recipients of medical assistance services; (iii) have been or are the victims of child abuse or neglect or domestic violence; or (iv) may present a serious threat to health or safety of a person or the public or may be subject to a serious threat to their health or safety. For the purposes of this section, "public health interventions" shall include the services provided through the Departments for Aging and Rehabilitative Services, the Blind and Vision Impaired, and the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing, or any successors in interest thereof.</p><p>Pursuant to the regulations concerning patient privacy promulgated by the federal Department of Health and Human Services, covered entities may disclose protected health information to the secure system without obtaining consent or authorization for such disclosure. Such protected health information shall be used exclusively for the purposes established in this section.</p><p>C. The Office of the Attorney General shall advise the Departments of Health, Medical Assistance Services, Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, and Social Services and the Departments for Aging and Rehabilitative Services, the Blind and Vision Impaired, and the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing, or any successors in interest thereof, in the implementation of this section.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0464'>464</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>