# § 13.1-900 Sale of assets other than in regular course of business.

<p>A. A corporation may sell, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of all, or substantially all, of its assets, with or without the good will, otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business, on the terms and conditions and for the consideration determined by the corporation's board of directors, if the board of directors adopts and its members approve the proposed transaction.</p><p>B. Where there are members having voting rights, a disposition, other than a disposition described in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-899/'>13.1-899</a>, shall be authorized in the following manner:</p><p>1. The board of directors shall adopt a resolution authorizing the disposition. After adoption of such a resolution, the board of directors shall submit the proposed disposition to the members for their approval. The board of directors shall also submit to the members a recommendation that the members approve the proposed disposition, unless the board of directors makes a determination that because of conflicts of interest or other special circumstances it should not make such a recommendation, in which case the board of directors shall transmit to the members the basis for that determination.</p><p>2. The board of directors may condition its submission of the proposed transaction on any basis.</p><p>3. The corporation shall notify each member, whether or not entitled to vote, of the proposed members' meeting in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-842/'>13.1-842</a>. The notice shall also state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the disposition and shall contain or be accompanied by a copy or summary of the agreement pursuant to which the disposition will be effected. If only a summary of the agreement is sent to members, the corporation shall also send a copy of the agreement to any member who requests it.</p><p>4. Unless the board of directors, acting pursuant to subdivision 2 of this subsection, requires a greater vote, the disposition to be authorized shall be approved by more than two-thirds of all the votes cast on the disposition at a meeting at which a quorum exists. The articles of incorporation may provide for a greater or lesser vote than that provided for in this subsection or a vote by separate voting groups so long as the vote provided for is not less than a majority of all the votes cast on the disposition by each voting group entitled to vote on the disposition at a meeting at which a quorum of the voting group exists.</p><p>5. Unless the parties to the disposition have agreed otherwise, after a disposition of assets has been approved by members, and at any time before the disposition has been consummated, it may be abandoned, subject to any contractual rights, without further member action in accordance with the procedure set forth in the resolution proposing the disposition or, if none is set forth, by the board of directors.</p><p>C. For a transaction to be authorized where there are no members, or no members having voting rights, the proposed transaction shall be authorized upon receiving the vote of a majority of the directors in office.</p><p>D. A disposition of assets in the course of dissolution under Article 13 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-902/'>13.1-902</a> et seq.) is not governed by this section.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 13-232, 13.1-246; 1956, c. 428; 1985, c. 522; 1991, c. 110; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>.</p>