# ยง 59.1-334 Investigations.

<p>A. The Commissioner may:</p><p>1. Make necessary public or private investigations within or without this Commonwealth to determine whether any person has violated or is about to violate any provision of this chapter or any rule, regulation, or order issued hereunder, or to aid in the enforcement of this chapter in prescribing rules and form hereunder.</p><p>2. Require or permit any person to file a statement in writing, under oath or otherwise as the Commissioner determines, as to all facts and circumstances concerning the matter to be investigated.</p><p>B. For the purpose of any investigation or proceeding under this chapter, the Commissioner may administer oaths or affirmations, and upon such motion or upon request of any party, may subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any matter which is relevant to the investigation, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangible things and the identity and location of persons having knowledge of relevant facts, or any other matter reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of material evidence.</p><p>C. Any proceeding or hearing of the Commissioner under this chapter, where witnesses are subpoenaed and their attendance required for evidence to be taken, or any matter is to be produced to ascertain material evidence, shall take place within the City of Richmond.</p><p>D. Upon failure to obey a subpoena or to answer questions propounded by the Commissioner and upon reasonable notice to all persons affected thereby, the Commissioner may apply to the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond for an order compelling compliance.</p><p>E. The Board may prescribe reasonable rules and regulations in order to implement the terms of this chapter and such rules and regulations shall be adopted, amended, or repealed in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>F. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all proceedings under this chapter shall be in accordance with the Administrative Process Act.</p><p>1985, c. 409.</p>