# ยง 8.01-653.1 Mandamus to secure construction of act granting power to incur certain obligations for transportation needs.

<p>Whenever the Comptroller notifies the Attorney General in writing that he entertains doubt respecting the constitutionality of any act of the General Assembly granting an agency of the Commonwealth or other governmental board or entity of the Commonwealth general powers to incur obligations for transportation needs where such obligations are subject to authorization by the General Assembly, the Attorney General shall file in the Supreme Court a petition for a writ of mandamus directing or requiring the Comptroller to pay the money as provided by any such act at such time in the future as may be proper. In order to expedite long-term planning by such an agency of the Commonwealth or other governmental board or entity of the Commonwealth and expedite its advice to the Governor and the General Assembly on possible alternative means of financing Virginia's transportation needs, the petition may be filed after the enactment date of any such act, although (i) the General Assembly may not have enacted legislation specifically authorizing such an agency of the Commonwealth or other governmental board or entity of the Commonwealth to enter into specific obligations under its general authority or (ii) if such specific obligations have been authorized, the time for making payments has not arrived and no demand for payment has been made. The court shall consider and determine all questions raised by the Attorney General's petition pertaining to the constitutionality or interpretation of any such act, even though some of the questions may not be necessary to the decision regarding the duty of the Comptroller to make payment of the moneys appropriated or directed to be paid.</p><p>The Comptroller shall be made a party defendant to the petition. The court may, in its discretion, cause other officers or persons to be made parties defendant as it may deem proper, and may make such order respecting the employment of an attorney or attorneys for any officer of the Commonwealth who is a party defendant as may be appropriate. The compensation of any attorney so employed shall be fixed by the court and upon its order paid out of the appropriation to the office or department of the public officer represented by the attorney in the proceeding.</p><p>1986, Sp. Sess., cc. 14, 16.</p>