# § 25.1-233 Confirmation of report; exceptions to report.

<p>A. The report of the body determining just compensation may be confirmed or set aside forthwith by the court.</p><p>B. However, when the report is so filed and before the court passes thereon, either party shall have the right to file written exceptions to the report, which shall be filed not later than 10 days after the rendering of the report by the body determining just compensation. The court shall have the same power over the reports of the body determining just compensation as it now has over verdicts of juries in civil actions.</p><p>C. Upon hearing of exceptions to the report the court shall not recall and question the members of the body determining just compensation as to the manner in which their report was determined unless there be an allegation in such written exceptions that fraud, collusion, corruption or improper conduct entered into the report. If such allegation is made, the judge shall summon the members of the body determining just compensation to appear and he alone shall question them concerning their actions. If the court be satisfied that fraud, collusion, corruption or improper conduct entered into the report of the body determining just compensation, the report shall be set aside and a new body to determine just compensation shall be empanelled to rehear the case.</p><p>D. If the court be satisfied that no such fraud, collusion, corruption or improper conduct entered into the report of the body determining just compensation, or no other cause exists that would justify setting aside or modifying a jury verdict in civil actions, the report shall be confirmed.</p><p>Code 1919, §§ 4368, 4369; Code 1950, §§ 25-17, 25-18, 25-18.1; 1956, c. 563; 1962, c. 426, § 25-46.21; 1991, c. 520; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1029'>1029</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0940'>940</a>.</p>