# § 1-605 Definition of systems by National Ocean Service/National Geodetic Survey; adopted.

<p>A. For purposes of more precisely defining the Virginia Coordinate System of 1927, the following definition by the National Ocean Service/National Geodetic Survey is adopted:</p><p>The Virginia Coordinate System of 1927, North Zone, is a Lambert conformal projection of the Clarke spheroid of 1896, having standard parallels at north latitudes 38° 02' and 39° 12', along which parallels the scale shall be exact. The origin of coordinates is at the intersection of the meridian 78° 30' west of Greenwich with the parallel 37° 40' north latitude, such origin being given the coordinates: x<equalsign>2,000,000", and y<equalsign>0'.</p><p>The Virginia Coordinate System of 1927, South Zone, is a Lambert conformal projection of the Clarke spheroid of 1896, having standard parallels at north latitudes 36° 46' and 37° 58', along which parallels the scale shall be exact. The origin of coordinates is at the intersection of the meridian 78° 30' west of Greenwich with the parallel 36° 20' north latitude, such origin being given the coordinates: x<equalsign>2,000,000', and y<equalsign>0'.</p><p>B. For purposes of more precisely defining the Virginia Coordinate System of 1983, the following definition by the National Ocean Service/National Geodetic Survey is adopted:</p><p>The Virginia Coordinate System of 1983, North Zone, is a Lambert conformal conic projection based on the North American Datum of 1983, having standard parallels at north latitudes 38° 02' and 39° 12', along which parallels the scale shall be exact. The origin of coordinates is at the intersection of the meridian 78° 30' west of Greenwich and the parallel 37° 40' north latitude, such origin being given the coordinates: x<equalsign>3,500,000 meters and y<equalsign>2,000,000 meters.</p><p>The Virginia Coordinate System of 1983, South Zone, is a Lambert conformal conic projection based on the North American Datum of 1983, having standard parallels at north latitudes 36° 46' and 37° 58', along which parallels the scale shall be exact. The origin of coordinates is at the intersection of the meridian 78° 30' west of Greenwich and the parallel 36° 20' north latitude, such origin being given the coordinates: x<equalsign>3,500,000 meters and y<equalsign>1,000,000 meters.</p><p>1946, p. 167; Michie Suppl. 1946, § 2849(5); Code 1950, § 55-292; 1984, c. 726; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>