# ยง 15.2-2904 Meetings; quorum; majority vote; panel to conduct investigation and make report; compensation and expenses.

<p>The Commission shall fix the time and place for holding regular meetings, which shall be held at least once every two months. Special meetings of the Commission may be called by any member and shall be held on such occasions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the duties imposed by this chapter. The chairman shall cause to be mailed to all members, at least five days in advance of a special meeting, written notice fixing the time, place, and purpose of such meeting. Written notice of a special meeting shall not be required if the time of the special meeting has been fixed at a regular meeting or if all members file a written waiver of notice. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum, and no action of the Commission shall be valid unless authorized by a majority vote of those present.</p><p>The Commission may appoint a panel of three members of the Commission to conduct any hearing and investigation and make any report required by this chapter. Any vote taken or report made shall be only by those members of the Commission who sat on the panel that heard the evidence. Any temporary absence of a panel member from a hearing will not disqualify such member from participation in the vote or discussion, deliberation, drafting or approval of a report.</p><p>Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a>, each member of the Commission shall be compensated at the rate of $100 per day, plus reasonable and necessary expenses, for each day or portion thereof in which the member is engaged in the business of the Commission.</p><p>1979, c. 85, ยง 15.1-945.4; 1980, c. 592; 1983, c. 202; 1986, c. 384; 1997, c. 587.</p>