# § 8.9A-316 Effect of change in governing law.

<p>(a) General rule; effect on perfection of change in governing law. A security interest perfected pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction designated in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/'>8.9A-301</a> (1) or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-305/'>8.9A-305</a> (c) remains perfected until the earliest of:</p><p>(1) the time perfection would have ceased under the law of that jurisdiction;</p><p>(2) the expiration of four months after a change of the debtor's location to another jurisdiction; or</p><p>(3) the expiration of one year after a transfer of collateral to a person that thereby becomes a debtor and is located in another jurisdiction.</p><p>(b) Security interest perfected or unperfected under law of new jurisdiction. If a security interest described in subsection (a) becomes perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earliest time or event described in that subsection, it remains perfected thereafter. If the security interest does not become perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earliest time or event, it becomes unperfected and is deemed never to have been perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.</p><p>(c) Possessory security interest in collateral moved to new jurisdiction. A possessory security interest in collateral, other than goods covered by a certificate of title and as-extracted collateral consisting of goods, remains continuously perfected if:</p><p>(1) the collateral is located in one jurisdiction and subject to a security interest perfected under the law of that jurisdiction;</p><p>(2) thereafter the collateral is brought into another jurisdiction; and</p><p>(3) upon entry into the other jurisdiction, the security interest is perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction.</p><p>(d) Goods covered by certificate of title from the Commonwealth. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e), a security interest in goods covered by a certificate of title which is perfected by any method under the law of another jurisdiction when the goods become covered by a certificate of title from the Commonwealth remains perfected until the security interest would have become unperfected under the law of the other jurisdiction had the goods not become so covered.</p><p>(e) When subsection (d) security interest becomes unperfected against purchasers. A security interest described in subsection (d) becomes unperfected as against a purchaser of the goods for value and is deemed never to have been perfected as against a purchaser of the goods for value if the applicable requirements for perfection under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-311/'>8.9A-311</a>(b) or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-313/'>8.9A-313</a> are not satisfied before the earlier of:</p><p>(1) the time the security interest would have become unperfected under the law of the other jurisdiction had the goods not become covered by a certificate of title from the Commonwealth; or</p><p>(2) the expiration of four months after the goods had become so covered.</p><p>(f) Change in jurisdiction of bank, issuer, nominated person, securities intermediary, or commodity intermediary. A security interest in deposit accounts, letter-of-credit rights, or investment property which is perfected under the law of the bank's jurisdiction, the issuer's jurisdiction, a nominated person's jurisdiction, the securities intermediary's jurisdiction, or the commodity intermediary's jurisdiction, as applicable, remains perfected until the earlier of:</p><p>(1) the time the security interest would have become unperfected under the law of that jurisdiction; or</p><p>(2) the expiration of four months after a change of the applicable jurisdiction to another jurisdiction.</p><p>(g) Subsection (f) security interest perfected or unperfected under law of new jurisdiction. If a security interest described in subsection (f) becomes perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier of the time or the end of the period described in that subsection, it remains perfected thereafter. If the security interest does not become perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier of that time or the end of that period, it becomes unperfected and is deemed never to have been perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.</p><p>(h) Effect on filed financing statement of change in governing law. The following rules apply to collateral to which a security interest attaches within four months after the debtor changes its location to another jurisdiction:</p><p>(1) A financing statement filed before the change pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction designated in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/'>8.9A-301</a>(1) or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-305/'>8.9A-305</a>(c) is effective to perfect a security interest in the collateral if the financing statement would have been effective to perfect a security interest in the collateral if the debtor had not changed its location.</p><p>(2) If a security interest perfected by a financing statement that is effective under paragraph (1) becomes perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier of the time the financing statement would have become ineffective under the law of the jurisdiction designated in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/'>8.9A-301</a>(1) or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-305/'>8.9A-305</a>(c) or the expiration of the four-month period, it remains perfected thereafter. If the security interest does not become perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier time or event, it becomes unperfected and is deemed never to have been perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.</p><p>(i) Effect of change in governing law on financing statement filed against original debtor. If a financing statement naming an original debtor is filed pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction designated in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/'>8.9A-301</a>(1) or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-305/'>8.9A-305</a>(c) and the new debtor is located in another jurisdiction, the following rules apply:</p><p>(1) The financing statement is effective to perfect a security interest in collateral in which the new debtor has or acquires rights before or within four months after the new debtor becomes bound under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-203/'>8.9A-203</a>(d), if the financing statement would have been effective to perfect a security interest in the collateral if the collateral had been acquired by the original debtor.</p><p>(2) A security interest that is perfected by the financing statement and which becomes perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier of the expiration of the four-month period or the time the financing statement would have become ineffective under the law of the jurisdiction designated in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/'>8.9A-301</a>(1) or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-305/'>8.9A-305</a>(c) remains perfected thereafter. A security interest that is perfected by the financing statement but which does not become perfected under the law of the other jurisdiction before the earlier time or event becomes unperfected and is deemed never to have been perfected as against a purchaser of the collateral for value.</p><p>Code 1950, § 55-9; 1964, c. 219, § 8.9-103; 1973, c. 509; 1984, c. 613; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0343'>343</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0155'>155</a>.</p>