# § 29.1-523 Killing deer by use of certain lights; acts raising presumption of attempt to kill.

<p>Any person who kills or attempts to kill any deer between a half hour after sunset and a half hour before sunrise by use of a light attached to any vehicle or a spotlight or flashlight shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. The flashing of a light attached to any vehicle or a spotlight or flashlight from any vehicle between a half hour after sunset and half hour before sunrise by any person or persons, then in possession of a firearm, crossbow, or bow and arrow or speargun, without good cause, shall raise a presumption of an attempt to kill deer in violation of this section. Every person in or on any such vehicle shall be deemed a principal in the second degree and subject to the same punishment as a principal in the first degree. Every person who, in any manner, aids, abets or acts in concert with any person or persons violating this section shall be deemed a principal in the second degree and subject to the same punishment as a principal in the first degree.</p><p>In addition to the penalty prescribed herein, the court shall revoke the current hunting license and privileges of the person convicted of violating this section and prohibit that person from hunting for a period of one to five years. If found hunting during this prohibited period, the person shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Notification of such revocation or prohibition shall be forwarded to the Department pursuant to subsections C and D of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-56.1/'>18.2-56.1</a>.</p><p>This section shall not apply to persons duly authorized to kill deer according to the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-529/'>29.1-529</a>.</p><p>1962, c. 520, § 29-144.2; 1970, c. 79; 1973, c. 369; 1980, cc. 602, 607, § 29-144.4:1; 1987, c. 488; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0113'>113</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0157'>157</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0183'>183</a>.</p>