# § 46.2-1575 Grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking licenses or certificates of dealer registration or qualification.

<p>A license or certificate of dealer registration or qualification issued under this subtitle may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds:</p><p>1. Material misstatement or omission in application for license, dealer's license plates, certificate of dealer registration, certificate of qualification, or certificate of title;</p><p>2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written warning from the Department or the Board or any willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or any regulation promulgated by the Commissioner or the Board under this chapter;</p><p>3. Failure to have an established place of business as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1510/'>46.2-1510</a> or failure to have as the dealer-operator an individual who holds a valid certificate of qualification;</p><p>4. Defrauding any retail buyer, to the buyer's damage, or any other person in the conduct of the licensee's or registrant's business;</p><p>5. Employment of fraudulent devices, methods or practices in connection with compliance with the requirements under the statutes of the Commonwealth with respect to the retaking of vehicles under retail installment contracts and the redemption and resale of those vehicles;</p><p>6. Having used deceptive acts or practices;</p><p>7. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact which is untrue, misleading, or deceptive in any particular relating to the conduct of the business licensed or registered or for which a license or registration is sought;</p><p>8. Having been convicted of any fraudulent act in connection with the business of selling vehicles or any consumer-related fraud;</p><p>9. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the business of selling vehicles;</p><p>10. Willfully retaining in his possession title to a motor vehicle that has not been completely and legally assigned to him;</p><p>11. Failure to comply with any provision of Chapter 4.1 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-85.2/'>36-85.2</a> et seq.) of Title 36 or any regulation promulgated pursuant to that chapter;</p><p>12. Leasing, renting, lending, or otherwise allowing the use of a dealer's license plate by persons not specifically authorized under this title;</p><p>13. Having been convicted of a felony;</p><p>14. Failure to submit to the Department, within thirty days from the date of sale, any application, tax, or fee collected for the Department on behalf of a buyer;</p><p>15. Having been convicted of larceny of a vehicle or receipt or sale of a stolen vehicle;</p><p>16. Having been convicted of odometer tampering or any related violation;</p><p>17. If a salvage dealer, salvage pool, or rebuilder, failing to comply with any provision of Chapter 16 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1600/'>46.2-1600</a> et seq.) of this title or any regulation promulgated by the Commissioner under that chapter;</p><p>18. Failing to maintain automobile liability insurance, issued by a company licensed to do business in the Commonwealth, or a certificate of self-insurance as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-368/'>46.2-368</a>, with respect to each dealer's license plate issued to the dealer by the Department; or</p><p>19. Failing or refusing to pay civil penalties imposed by the Board pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1507/'>46.2-1507</a>.</p><p>1988, c. 865, § 46.1-550.5:34; 1989, c. 727; 1990, cc. 197, 954; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0217'>217</a>.</p>