# ยง 58.1-2230 When tax return and payment are due.

<p>A. A return for the tax on motor fuel and gasohol levied by this chapter shall be filed with the Commissioner and be in the form and contain the information required by the Commissioner. The return and the payment for the tax on motor fuel levied by this chapter shall be due for each full month in a calendar year. Any return and payment required under this section shall be deemed timely filed if received by the Commissioner by midnight of the twentieth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due. Each return shall report tax liabilities that accrue in the month for which the return is due.</p><p>B. Returns and payments shall be (i) postmarked on or before the fifteenth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due or (ii) received by the Department by the twentieth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due. However, a monthly return of the tax for the month of May shall be (i) postmarked by June 25 or (ii) received by the Commissioner by the last business day the Department is open for business in June.</p><p>If a tax return and payment due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a state or banking holiday, the return shall be postmarked on or before the fifteenth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due or received by the Department by midnight of the next business day the Department is open for business. This provision shall not apply to a return of the tax for the month of May.</p><p>A return and payment shall be deemed postmarked if it carries the official cancellation mark of the United States Postal Service or other postal or delivery services.</p><p>C. The following shall file a monthly return as required by this section:</p><p>1. A refiner;</p><p>2. A terminal operator;</p><p>3. A supplier;</p><p>4. A distributor;</p><p>5. An importer to include a bonded importer;</p><p>6. A blender;</p><p>7. An aviation consumer;</p><p>8. An elective supplier; and</p><p>9. A fuel alcohol provider.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other section in this chapter, the Commissioner may require all or certain licensees to file tax returns and payments electronically.</p><p>E. Persons incurring liability under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2225/'>58.1-2225</a> for the backup tax on motor fuel shall file a return together with a payment of tax due within 30 calendar days of incurring such liability.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0007'>7</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0781'>781</a>.</p>