# ยง 3.2-3610 Statistical reports.

<p>A. For commercial fertilizer:</p><p>1. Any person distributing commercial fertilizer to a nonlicensee shall furnish the Commissioner an annual statistical report showing:</p><p>a. The county or city of the nonlicensee consignee;</p><p>b. The amounts (expressed in tons, or decimal portions) of each grade of fertilizer; and</p><p>c. The form in which the person distributed the fertilizer (e.g., in bags, bulk, or in liquid form).</p><p>2. This information shall be submitted in the following form and shall specify shipments made during the preceding year:</p><p>a. A statistical summary report on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, on or before August 1; or</p><p>b. A statistical summary report by electronic transfer, utilizing the Uniform Fertilizer Tonnage Reporting System. Prior to using the electronic transfer method, the person responsible for submitting the annual tonnage report shall make arrangements with the Commissioner for the Commissioner's receipt of the report by such method.</p><p>3. If the annual statistical report is not filed within 15 working days of the specified filing date, a late fee of $35 shall be assessed against the licensee.</p><p>B. For all other regulated products:</p><p>1. The person distributing or selling such products to a nonlicensee shall furnish the Commissioner an annual report showing:</p><p>a. The county or city of the nonlicensee consignee; and</p><p>b. The amounts (expressed in tons, or decimal portions) of each grade under a given brand of product.</p><p>2. Any person listed in subdivision B 1 who fails to file this report by August 1 shall pay a late fee of $35 to the Commissioner.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0740'>740</a>, ยง 3.1-106.9; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0104'>104</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0552'>552</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0564'>564</a>.</p>