# ยง 13.1-1065 Payment of fees, fines, penalties, and interest prerequisite to Commission action; refunds.

<p>A. The Commission shall not file or issue with respect to any domestic or foreign limited liability company any document or certificate specified in this chapter, except a statement of change pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/13.1-1016/'>13.1-1016</a>, a statement of resignation pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/13.1-1017/'>13.1-1017</a>, and a statement of change pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/13.1-1018.1/'>13.1-1018.1</a>, until all fees, fines, penalties, and interest assessed, imposed, charged, or to be collected by the Commission pursuant to this chapter or Title 12.1 have been paid by or on behalf of such limited liability company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Commission may file or issue any document or certificate with respect to a domestic or foreign limited liability company that has been assessed an annual registration fee if the document or certificate is filed or issued with an effective date that is on or before the due date of the limited liability company's annual registration fee payment in any year, provided that the Commission shall not issue a certificate of domestication with respect to a foreign limited liability company or a certificate of entity conversion with respect to a domestic limited liability company that will become a domestic other business entity until the annual registration fee has been paid by or on behalf of that limited liability company.</p><p>B. The Commission shall not file or issue with respect to any protected series or foreign protected series any document or certificate specified in this chapter until all fees, fines, penalties, and interest assessed, imposed, charged, or to be collected by the Commission pursuant to this chapter or Title 12.1 have been paid by or on behalf of such protected series. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Commission may file or issue any document or certificate with respect to a protected series or foreign protected series that has been assessed an annual registration fee if the document or certificate is filed or issued with an effective date that is on or before the due date of the protected series' annual registration fee payment in any year.</p><p>C. The Commission shall have authority to certify to the Comptroller directing refund of any overpayment of a fee, or of any fee collected for a document that is not accepted for filing, at any time within one year from the date of its payment.</p><p>1991, c. 168; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0608'>608</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0316'>316</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0659'>659</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0810'>810</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0450'>450</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0636'>636</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>