# § 46.2-602.3 Titling and registration of converted electric vehicles.

<p>A. Upon receipt of an application and such evidence of ownership as required by the Commissioner pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-625/'>46.2-625</a>, the Department shall issue a certificate of title for a converted electric vehicle. The first certificate of title issued for a converted electric vehicle shall be an original certificate of title, regardless of the submission of a Virginia certificate of title issued for the vehicle prior to conversion.</p><p>B. 1. No converted electric vehicle shall be registered or operated on the highways of the Commonwealth until the owner submits to the Department a certification by a certified Virginia safety inspector that the conversion to electric propulsion is complete and proof that the vehicle has passed a Virginia safety inspection subsequent to the certification. Such certification shall be on a form approved by the Commissioner and the Superintendent and shall state that the inspector has verified that (i) the internal combustion engine has been removed; (ii) the fuel tank has been removed and not replaced; (iii) a traction battery pack has been installed that is distinct from the vehicle's original auxiliary battery system; and (iv) an electric motor has been installed to drive the wheels of the vehicle. The safety inspector may charge a fee not to exceed $40 to complete a certification pursuant to this subsection, but no such charge shall be mandatory. Any fee charged for such certification shall be in addition to any fee imposed pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1167/'>46.2-1167</a> for the completion of a Virginia safety inspection.</p><p>2. The completion of the certification required by this section shall not impose any liability on the safety inspector for the quality of the conversion process; however, nothing in this section shall be construed so as to relieve the safety inspector of any liability that may be imposed pursuant to Article 21 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1157/'>46.2-1157</a> et seq.) of Chapter 10 or under any regulation promulgated pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1165/'>46.2-1165</a>, relating to the safety inspection of the converted electric vehicle.</p><p>3. The submission of a certification pursuant to this section shall be sufficient documentation to exempt the converted electric vehicle for which it is submitted from the emissions inspection program required by Article 22 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1176/'>46.2-1176</a> et seq.) of Chapter 10.</p><p>4. When necessary and upon application, the Department shall issue temporary trip permits in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-651/'>46.2-651</a> for the purpose of transporting the converted electric vehicle to and from an official Virginia safety inspection station.</p><p>C. The provisions of this section need only be satisfied once for each converted electric vehicle.</p><p>2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0177'>177</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>.</p>