# § 38.2-4234 Examinations.

<p>A. In addition to the powers the Commission has under Article 4 of Chapter 13 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1317/'>38.2-1317</a> et seq.) of this title, the Commission shall also have the power to order any nonstock corporation registered under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4231/'>38.2-4231</a> to produce any records, books, or other information papers in the possession of the nonstock corporation or its affiliates necessary to determine the financial condition or legality of conduct of the nonstock corporation. If the nonstock corporation fails to comply with the order, the Commission shall have the power to examine its affiliates to obtain the information.</p><p>B. The Commission shall exercise its power under subsection A of this section only if the examination of the nonstock corporation under Article 4 of Chapter 13 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1317/'>38.2-1317</a> et seq.) of this title is inadequate or the interests of the subscribers of the nonstock corporation may be adversely affected.</p><p>C. The Commission may retain at the expense of the registered nonstock corporation any attorneys, actuaries, accountants and other experts reasonably necessary to assist in the conduct of the examination under subsection A of this section. Any persons so retained shall be under the direction and control of the Commission and shall act in a purely advisory capacity.</p><p>D. Each nonstock corporation producing books and papers for examination records pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be liable for and shall pay the expense of the examination in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of Chapter 13 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1317/'>38.2-1317</a> et seq.) of this title.</p><p>1989, c. 606; 1992, c. 588.</p>