# ยง 55.1-2216 Termination of certain time-shares.

<p>A. This section applies to all time-share estate programs and, when provided by the time-share instrument, to time-share use programs.</p><p>B. A time-share project may be terminated in whole by the developer at any time and for any reason if such developer is the sole owner of all time-shares within the time-share project. Such termination shall be accomplished by the developer executing and recording a termination document where the time-share instrument is recorded. Time-shares subject to this section also may be terminated by written agreement of the time-share owners having at least 51 percent of the time-shares or by written agreement of such larger percentage of the time-share owners as may otherwise be provided in the time-share instrument. The termination agreement shall specify a date upon which it shall become void, unless it is recorded before that date in the clerk's office of the appropriate court where the time-share project is located.</p><p>C. If the termination agreement sets forth the material terms of a contract or proposed contract under which an estate or interests equal to the sum of the time-shares are to be sold and designates a trustee to effect the sale, the termination agreement becomes effective upon recordation, and title to that estate or interest vests upon termination in the trustee for the benefit of the time-share owners, to be transferred pursuant to the contract. If the termination agreement does not set forth the material terms of a contract or proposed contract under which an estate or interests equal to the sum of the time-shares are to be sold and designates a trustee to effect the sale, the termination agreement becomes effective upon recordation, and title to an estate or interests equal to the sum of the time-shares therein vests upon termination in the time-share owners in proportion to their respective interests as provided in subsection F. Liens on the time-shares shall accordingly encumber the respective interests; and in this instance, any co-owner of that estate or interest may maintain an action for partition or for allotment or sale in lieu of partition pursuant to the laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. Except as otherwise specified in the termination agreement, so long as the former time-share owners or their trustee holds title to the estate or interests equal to the sum of the time-shares, each former time-share owner and his successor in interest have the same rights with respect to the use, enjoyment, and occupancy in the former time-share unit that such former time-share owner and his successor in interest would have had if termination had not occurred, together with the same liabilities and other obligations imposed by this act or the time-share instrument.</p><p>E. After termination of all time-shares in a time-share project and adequate provision for payment of the claims of the creditors for time-share expenses, distribution shall be made, in proportion to their respective interests as provided in subsection F, to the former time-share owners and their successors in interest of (i) the proceeds of any sale pursuant to this section, (ii) the proceeds of any personalty held for the use and benefit of the former time-share owners, and (iii) any other funds held for the use and benefit of the former time-share owners.</p><p>F. The time-share instrument may specify the respective fractional or percentage interest that will be owned by each former time-share owner after termination, in accordance with the provisions of this section. Otherwise, not more than 180 days prior to the termination, an appraisal shall be made of the fair market value of each time-share by one or more impartial qualified appraisers selected either by the trustee designated in the termination agreement or by the managing entity if no trustee was so designated. The appraisal shall also state the corresponding fractional or percentage interests calculated in proportion to those values and in accordance with this subsection. A notice stating all of those values and corresponding interests and the return address of the sender shall be sent by certified or registered mail, by the managing entity or the trustee designated in the termination agreements, to all of the time-share owners. The appraisal governs the magnitude of each interest unless (i) at least 25 percent of the time-share owners deliver, within 60 days after the date the notices were mailed, written disapprovals to the return address of the sender of the notice or (ii) the final judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, entered during or after that period, holds that the appraisal should be set aside. The appraisal and the calculation of interests shall be made in accordance with the following:</p><p>1. If the termination agreement sets forth the material terms of a contract or proposed contract for the sale of the estate or interests equal to the sum of the time-shares, each time-share conferring a right of occupancy during a limited number of time periods shall be appraised as if the time until the date specified for the conveyance of the property had already elapsed. Otherwise, each time-share of that kind shall be appraised as if the time until the date specified pursuant to subsection B had already elapsed.</p><p>2. The interest of each time-share owner is the value of the time-share he owned divided by the sum of the values of all time-shares in the unit or units to which his time-share applies.</p><p>G. Foreclosure or enforcement of a lien or encumbrance against all of the time-shares in a time-share project does not of itself terminate those time-shares.</p><p>1981, c. 462, ยง 55-373; 1985, c. 517; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0653'>653</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>