# ยง 45.2-813  Trailing cables.

<p>A. Trailing cables that are used underground shall be flame-resistant.</p><p>B. Trailing cables shall be provided with suitable short-circuit protection and some means of disconnecting power from the cable. Any power connection that is made in other than an intake airway shall be by means of a permissible connector.</p><p>C. Any temporary splice in a trailing cable shall be made in a workmanlike manner and shall be mechanically strong and well insulated.</p><p>D. No more than one temporary, unvulcanized splice shall be allowed in any trailing cable.</p><p>E. Any permanent splice or repair in a trailing cable shall:</p><p>1. Be mechanically strong, with adequate electrical conductivity and flexibility;</p><p>2. Be effectively insulated and sealed so as to exclude moisture;</p><p>3. Be vulcanized or otherwise treated with suitable materials to provide flame-resistant properties and good bonding to the outer jacket; and</p><p>4. If the cable has metallic shielding around each conductor, possess new shielding that is equivalent to the original shielding.</p><p>F. Trailing cables shall be protected against mechanical damage. A trailing cable that is damaged in a manner that exposes the insulated inner power conductors shall be repaired promptly or removed from service.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-82.5; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-84; 1978, c. 118; 1993, c. 442; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.194; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256'>256</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>