# ยง 58.1-613 Dealers' certificates of registration.

<p>A. Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business as a dealer in this Commonwealth shall file with the Tax Commissioner or the local commissioner of the revenue, if the local commissioner elects to provide the services authorized under this section, an application for a certificate of registration for each place of business in this Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Every application for a certificate of registration shall set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or intends to transact business, the location of his place or places of business, and such other information as the Tax Commissioner may require.</p><p>C. When the required application has been made, the Tax Commissioner shall issue to each applicant a separate certificate of registration for each place of business within this Commonwealth. A certificate of registration is not assignable and is valid only for the person in whose name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place designated therein. It shall be at all times conspicuously displayed at the place for which issued.</p><p>D. Whenever any person fails to comply with any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation relating thereto, the Tax Commissioner, upon hearing after giving such person 10 days' notice in writing, specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring him to show cause why his certificate of registration should not be revoked or suspended, may revoke or suspend any one or more of the certificates of registration held by such person. The notice may be personally served or served by registered mail directed to the last known address of such person.</p><p>E. Any person who engages in business as a dealer in this Commonwealth without obtaining a certificate of registration, or after a certificate of registration has been suspended or revoked, and each officer of any corporation which so engages in business shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. Each day's continuance in business in violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.</p><p>F. If the holder of a certificate of registration ceases to conduct his business at the place specified in his certificate, the certificate shall thereupon expire, and such holder shall inform the Tax Commissioner in writing within 30 days after he has ceased to conduct such business at such place that he has so ceased. If the holder of a certificate of registration desires to change his place of business to another place in this Commonwealth, he shall so inform the Tax Commissioner in writing and his certificate shall be revised accordingly. The holder of a certificate of registration alternatively may complete the transactions required under this subsection with any local commissioner of the revenue electing to provide the services authorized under this section.</p><p>G. This section shall also apply to any person who engages in the business of furnishing any of the things or services taxable under this chapter. Moreover, it shall apply to any person who is liable only for the collection of the use tax.</p><p>H. At the request of a local commissioner of revenue, the Tax Commissioner shall provide, on a quarterly basis, a listing of new businesses in the locality which obtained a certificate of registration.</p><p>I. A commissioner of the revenue electing to provide the services authorized under this section shall follow the guidelines, rules, or procedures set forth by the Tax Commissioner for providing such services and shall provide the Tax Commissioner on a quarterly basis a list of each certificate of registration he has issued or revised.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-441.16; 1966, c. 151; 1981, cc. 420, 438; 1984, c. 675; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0343'>343</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0362'>362</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0663'>663</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0674'>674</a>.</p>