# § 58.1-638 Disposition of state sales and use tax revenue.

<p>A. The Comptroller shall designate a specific revenue code number for all the state sales and use tax revenue collected under the preceding sections of this chapter.</p><p>The sales and use tax revenue generated by the one-half percent sales and use tax increase enacted by the 1986 Special Session of the General Assembly shall be paid, in the manner hereinafter provided in this section, to the Commonwealth Transportation Fund established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524/'>33.2-1524</a>. The Fund's share of such net revenue shall be computed as an estimate of the net revenue to be received into the state treasury each month, and such estimated payment shall be adjusted for the actual net revenue received in the preceding month. All payments shall be made to the Fund on the last day of each month.</p><p>B. The sales and use tax revenue generated by a one percent sales and use tax shall be distributed among the counties and cities of the Commonwealth in the manner provided in subsections C and D.</p><p>C. The localities' share of the net revenue distributable under this section among the counties and cities shall be apportioned by the Comptroller and distributed among them by warrants of the Comptroller drawn on the Treasurer of Virginia as soon as practicable after the close of each month during which the net revenue was received into the state treasury. The distribution of the localities' share of such net revenue shall be computed with respect to the net revenue received into the state treasury during each month, and such distribution shall be made as soon as practicable after the close of each such month.</p><p>D. The net revenue so distributable among the counties and cities shall be apportioned and distributed upon the basis of the latest yearly estimate of the population of cities and counties ages five to 19, provided by the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service of the University of Virginia. Such population estimate produced by the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service of the University of Virginia shall account for persons who are domiciled in orphanages or charitable institutions or who are dependents living on any federal military or naval reservation or other federal property within the school division in which the institutions or federal military or naval reservation or other federal property is located. Such population estimate produced by the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service of the University of Virginia shall account for members of the military services who are under 20 years of age within the school division in which the parents or guardians of such persons legally reside. Such population estimate produced by the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service of the University of Virginia shall account for individuals receiving services in state hospitals, state training centers, or mental health facilities, persons who are confined in state or federal correctional institutions, or persons who attend the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind within the school division in which the parents or guardians of such persons legally reside. Such population estimate produced by the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service of the University of Virginia shall account for persons who attend institutions of higher education within the school division in which the student's parents or guardians legally reside. To such estimate, the Department of Education shall add the population of students with disabilities, ages two through four and 20 through 21, as provided to the Department of Education by school divisions. The revenue so apportionable and distributable is hereby appropriated to the several counties and cities for maintenance, operation, capital outlays, debt and interest payments, or other expenses incurred in the operation of the public schools, which shall be considered as funds raised from local resources. In any county, however, wherein is situated any incorporated town constituting a school division, the county treasurer shall pay into the town treasury for maintenance, operation, capital outlays, debt and interest payments, or other expenses incurred in the operation of the public schools, the proper proportionate amount received by him in the ratio that the school population of such town bears to the school population of the entire county. If the school population of any city or of any town constituting a school division is increased by the annexation of territory since the last estimate of school population provided by the Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service, such increase shall, for the purposes of this section, be added to the school population of such city or town as shown by the last such estimate and a proper reduction made in the school population of the county or counties from which the annexed territory was acquired.</p><p>E. Beginning July 1, 2000, of the remaining sales and use tax revenue, the revenue generated by a two percent sales and use tax, up to an annual amount of $13 million, collected from the sales of hunting equipment, auxiliary hunting equipment, fishing equipment, auxiliary fishing equipment, wildlife-watching equipment, and auxiliary wildlife-watching equipment in Virginia, as estimated by the most recent U.S. Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife Service and U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census National Survey of Fishing, Hunting, and Wildlife-Associated Recreation, shall be paid into the Game Protection Fund established under § <a href='/vacode/29.1-101/'>29.1-101</a> and shall be used, in part, to defray the cost of law enforcement. Not later than 30 days after the close of each quarter, the Comptroller shall transfer to the Game Protection Fund the appropriate amount of collections to be dedicated to such Fund. At any time that the balance in the Capital Improvement Fund, established under § <a href='/vacode/29.1-101.01/'>29.1-101.01</a>, is equal to or in excess of $35 million, any portion of sales and use tax revenues that would have been transferred to the Game Protection Fund, established under § <a href='/vacode/29.1-101/'>29.1-101</a>, in excess of the net operating expenses of the Board, after deduction of other amounts which accrue to the Board and are set aside for the Game Protection Fund, shall remain in the general fund until such time as the balance in the Capital Improvement Fund is less than $35 million.</p><p>F. 1. Of the net revenue generated from the one-half percent increase in the rate of the state sales and use tax effective August 1, 2004, pursuant to enactments of the 2004 Special Session I of the General Assembly, the Comptroller shall transfer from the general fund of the state treasury to the Public Education Standards of Quality/Local Real Estate Property Tax Relief Fund established under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-638.1/'>58.1-638.1</a> an amount equivalent to one-half of the net revenue generated from such one-half percent increase as provided in this subdivision. The transfers to the Public Education Standards of Quality/Local Real Estate Property Tax Relief Fund under this subdivision shall be for one-half of the net revenue generated (and collected in the succeeding month) from such one-half percent increase for the month of August 2004 and for each month thereafter.</p><p>2. Beginning July 1, 2013, of the remaining sales and use tax revenue, an amount equal to the revenue generated by a 0.125 percent sales and use tax shall be distributed to the Public Education Standards of Quality/Local Real Estate Property Tax Relief Fund established under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-638.1/'>58.1-638.1</a>, and be used for the state's share of Standards of Quality basic aid payments.</p><p>3. For the purposes of the Comptroller making the required transfers under subdivision 1 and 2, the Tax Commissioner shall make a written certification to the Comptroller no later than the twenty-fifth of each month certifying the sales and use tax revenues generated in the preceding month. Within three calendar days of receiving such certification, the Comptroller shall make the required transfers to the Public Education Standards of Quality/Local Real Estate Property Tax Relief Fund.</p><p>G. (Contingent expiration date) Beginning July 1, 2020, of the remaining sales and use tax revenue, an amount equal to 20 percent of the revenue generated by a one-half percent sales and use tax, such as that paid to the Commonwealth Transportation Fund as provided in subsection A, shall be paid to the Commonwealth Transportation Fund established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524/'>33.2-1524</a>.</p><p>The Commonwealth Transportation Fund's share of the net revenue distributable under this subsection shall be computed as an estimate of the net revenue to be received into the state treasury each month, and such estimated payment shall be adjusted for the actual net revenue received in the preceding month. All payments shall be made to the Fund on the last day of each month.</p><p>H. (Contingent expiration date)</p><p>1. The additional revenue generated by increases in the state sales and use tax from Planning District 8 pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.01/'>58.1-604.01</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.1/'>58.1-604.1</a>, and <a href='/vacode/58.1-614/'>58.1-614</a> shall be deposited by the Comptroller in the fund established under § <a href='/vacode/33.2-2509/'>33.2-2509</a>.</p><p>2. The additional revenue generated by increases in the state sales and use tax from Planning District 23 pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.01/'>58.1-604.01</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.1/'>58.1-604.1</a>, and <a href='/vacode/58.1-614/'>58.1-614</a> shall be deposited by the Comptroller in the fund established under § <a href='/vacode/33.2-2600/'>33.2-2600</a>.</p><p>3. (For contingent expiration date, see Acts 2020, c. 1235) The additional revenue generated by increases in the state sales and use tax from Planning District 15 pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.01/'>58.1-604.01</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.1/'>58.1-604.1</a>, and <a href='/vacode/58.1-614/'>58.1-614</a> shall be deposited by the Comptroller in the fund established under § <a href='/vacode/33.2-3701/'>33.2-3701</a>.</p><p>4. The additional revenue generated by increases in the state sales and use tax in any other Planning District pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.01/'>58.1-604.01</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-604.1/'>58.1-604.1</a>, and <a href='/vacode/58.1-614/'>58.1-614</a> shall be deposited into special funds that shall be established by appropriate legislation.</p><p>5. The net revenues distributable under this subsection shall be computed as an estimate of the net revenue to be received by the state treasury each month, and such estimated payment shall be adjusted for the actual net revenue received in the preceding month. All payments shall be made to the appropriate funds on the last day of each month.</p><p>I. (For contingent expiration date, see Acts 2018, c. 850) The additional revenue generated by increases in the state sales and use tax from the Historic Triangle pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.2/'>58.1-603.2</a> shall be deposited by the Comptroller as follows: (i) 50 percent shall be deposited into the Historic Triangle Marketing Fund established pursuant to subsection F of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.2/'>58.1-603.2</a>; and (ii) 50 percent shall be deposited in the special fund created pursuant to subdivision D 2 of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.2/'>58.1-603.2</a> and distributed to the localities in which the revenues were collected. The net revenues distributable under this subsection shall be computed as an estimate of the net revenues to be received by the state treasury each month, and such estimated payment shall be adjusted for the actual net revenue received in the preceding month. All payments shall be made to the appropriate funds on the last day of each month.</p><p>J. If errors are made in any distribution, or adjustments are otherwise necessary, the errors shall be corrected and adjustments made in the distribution for the next quarter or for subsequent quarters.</p><p>K. The term "net revenue," as used in this section, means the gross revenue received into the general fund or the Commonwealth Transportation Fund of the state treasury under the preceding sections of this chapter, less refunds to taxpayers.</p><p>Code 1950, § 58-441.48; 1966, c. 151; 1976, c. 680; 1978, c. 773; 1980, c. 559; 1984, c. 675; 1986, Sp. Sess., c. 12; 1991, cc. 666, 713; 1992, c. 167; 1993, c. 793; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0542'>542</a>; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0320'>320</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0905'>905</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0907'>907</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0281'>281</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0397'>397</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0898'>898</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0694'>694</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0707'>707</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>; 2004, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?042+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0113'>113</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0386'>386</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0629'>629</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507'>507</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0779'>779</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0817'>817</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0639'>639</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0766'>766</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0609'>609</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0684'>684</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0506'>506</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0850'>850</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0854'>854</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0856'>856</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0854'>854</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1235'>1235</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0652'>652</a>.</p>