# § 13.1-842 Notice of meeting.

<p>A. 1. A corporation shall notify members of the date, time, and place, if any, of each annual and special members' meeting. Such notice shall be given no less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the meeting date except that notice of a members' meeting to act on an amendment of the articles of incorporation, a plan of merger, domestication, a proposed sale of assets pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-900/'>13.1-900</a>, or the dissolution of the corporation shall be given not less than 25 nor more than 60 days before the meeting date. Unless this chapter or the articles of incorporation require otherwise, the corporation is required to give notice only to members entitled to vote at the meeting.</p><p>2. In lieu of delivering notice as specified in subdivision A 1, the corporation may publish such notice at least once a week for two successive calendar weeks in a newspaper published in the city or county in which the registered office is located, or having a general circulation therein, the first publication to be not more than 60 days, and the second not less than seven days before the date of the meeting.</p><p>B. Unless this chapter or the articles of incorporation require otherwise, notice of an annual meeting need not state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.</p><p>C. Notice of a special meeting shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.</p><p>D. If not otherwise fixed under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-840/'>13.1-840</a> or <a href='/vacode/13.1-844/'>13.1-844</a>, the record date for determining members entitled to notice of and to vote at an annual or special meeting is the day before the effective date of the notice to members.</p><p>E. Unless the bylaws require otherwise, if an annual or special meeting is adjourned to a different date, time, or place, notice need not be given if the new date, time, or place, if any, is announced at the meeting before adjournment. If a new record date for the adjourned meeting is or shall be fixed under § <a href='/vacode/13.1-844/'>13.1-844</a>, however, not less than 10 days before the meeting date notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given under this section to persons who are members as of the new record date.</p><p>Code 1950, § 13.1-214; 1956, c. 428; 1958, c. 564; 1960, c. 214; 1985, c. 522; 1986, c. 529; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0285'>285</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0611'>611</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0265'>265</a>.</p>