# ยง 13.1-562 Revocation of or refusal to renew registration.

<p>A. The Commission may, by order entered after a hearing on notice duly served on the defendant not less than thirty days before the date of the hearing, revoke the effectiveness of a franchise registration (or refuse to renew a registration if an application for renewal has been or is to be filed) if it finds that such an order is in the public interest or that the franchisor or any controlling person of the franchisor:</p><p>1. Has engaged in any fraudulent transaction;</p><p>2. Is insolvent, or in danger of becoming insolvent, either (i) in the sense that his liabilities exceed his assets or (ii) in the sense that he cannot meet his obligations as they mature;</p><p>3. Is a person for whom a conservator or guardian has been appointed and is acting;</p><p>4. Has been convicted, within or without this Commonwealth, of any misdemeanor involving a franchise, or any felony;</p><p>5. Has failed to furnish information requested by the Commission concerning the conduct of his business; or</p><p>6. Has violated any of the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>B. If it appears to the Commission that it is in the public interest and that there exists one or more of the grounds enumerated in subdivisions (1) through (6) of subsection A of this section, the Commission may so notify the franchisor. The franchisor shall have seven business days from the date of the written notice from the Commission within which to file a written response to the matters addressed in the notice. If (i) the Commission notified, or reasonably attempted to notify, the franchisor in writing, (ii) it appears to be in the public interest, and (iii) either the Commission, after consideration of the franchisor's response, reasonably believes the ground or grounds exist or a response is not filed in a timely manner, the Commission may summarily enter an order suspending the effectiveness of the franchisor's registration pending final determination of any proceeding under this section. The Commission shall promptly send a copy of the suspension order to the franchisor and each of its subfranchisors, if any are known to the Commission. At a minimum, the order shall set forth the basis for the suspension as well as the franchisor's or subfranchisor's right to file a written request for a hearing within twenty-one days after the date of entry of the order. If a hearing is requested in a timely manner, the Commission, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing as soon as practicable, may modify or vacate the suspension order or continue it in effect until final determination of the proceeding under this section. If a hearing is not requested in a timely manner, the suspension order shall remain in effect until it is modified or vacated by the Commission.</p><p>1972, c. 561; 1978, c. 670; 1991, c. 475; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0921'>921</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0668'>668</a>.</p>