# ยง 54.1-2105.03 Continuing education; relicensure of brokers and salespersons.

<p>A. Board regulations shall include educational requirements as a condition for relicensure of brokers and salespersons to whom active licenses have been issued by the Board beyond those now specified by law as conditions for licensure.</p><p>1. Brokers to whom active licenses have been issued by the Board shall be required to satisfactorily complete courses of not less than 24 hours of classroom or correspondence or other distance learning instruction during each licensing term. Of the total 24 hours, the curriculum shall consist of:</p><p>a. A minimum of eight required hours to include at least three hours of ethics and standards of conduct, two hours of fair housing, and the remaining three hours of legal updates and emerging trends, flood hazard areas and the National Flood Insurance Program, real estate agency, and real estate contracts;</p><p>b. A minimum of eight hours of courses relating to supervision and management of real estate agents and the management of real estate brokerage firms as are approved by the Board, two hours of which shall include an overview of the broker supervision requirements under this chapter and the Board regulations; and</p><p>c. Eight hours of general elective courses as are approved by the Board.</p><p>The Board may, on a year-by-year basis, adjust the required hours and course topics specified in this subdivision for the next succeeding year, applicable to a licensee in the next renewal period for his license, including the addition of topics deemed by the Board to be essential. Such designation or adjustment by the Board shall be made prior to September 1 of any given calendar year. The action of the Board in making such adjustment shall be subject to ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4012.1/'>2.2-4012.1</a>.</p><p>The fair housing requirements shall include an update on current cases and administrative decisions under fair housing laws. If the licensee submits a notarized affidavit to the Board that certifies that he does not practice residential real estate and shall not do so during the licensing term, training in fair housing shall not be required; instead, such licensee shall receive training in other applicable federal and state discrimination laws and regulations.</p><p>2. Salespersons to whom active licenses have been issued by the Board shall be required to satisfactorily complete courses of not less than 16 hours of classroom or correspondence or other distance learning instruction during each licensing term. Of the total 16 hours, the curriculum shall consist of:</p><p>a. A minimum of eight required hours to include at least three hours of ethics and standards of conduct, two hours of fair housing, and the remaining three hours of legal updates and emerging trends, real estate agency, real estate contracts, and flood hazard areas and the National Flood Insurance Program; and</p><p>b. Eight hours of general elective courses as are approved by the Board.</p><p>The Board may, on a year-by-year basis, readjust the required hours and course topics specified in this subdivision for the next succeeding year, applicable to a licensee in the next renewal period for his license, including the addition of topics deemed by the Board to be essential. Such designation or adjustment by the Board shall be made prior to September 1 of any given calendar year. The action of the Board in making such adjustment shall be subject to ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4012.1/'>2.2-4012.1</a>.</p><p>3. The Board shall approve a continuing education curriculum of not less than three hours, and as of July 1, 2012, every applicant for relicensure as an active broker or salesperson shall complete at a minimum one three-hour continuing education course on the changes to residential standard agency effective as of July 1, 2011, to Article 3 (ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2130/'>54.1-2130</a> et seq.) prior to renewal or reinstatement of his license. If the licensee submits a notarized affidavit to the Board that certifies that he does not practice residential real estate and shall not do so during the licensing term, training in residential representation shall not be required. A licensee who takes one three-hour continuing education class on residential representation shall satisfy the requirements for continuing education and may, but shall not be required to, take any further continuing education on residential standard agency.</p><p>The fair housing requirements shall include an update on current cases and administrative decisions under fair housing laws. If the licensee submits a notarized affidavit to the Board that certifies that he does not practice residential real estate and shall not do so during the licensing term, training in fair housing shall not be required; instead, such licensee shall receive training in other applicable federal and state discrimination laws and regulations.</p><p>4. For correspondence and other distance learning instruction offered by an approved provider, the Board shall establish the appropriate testing procedures to verify completion of the course and require the licensee to file a notarized affidavit certifying compliance with the course requirements. The Board may establish procedures to ensure the quality of the courses. The Board shall not require testing for continuing education courses completed through classroom instruction.</p><p>B. Every applicant for relicensure as an active salesperson or broker shall complete the continuing education requirements prior to each renewal or reinstatement of his license. The continuing education requirement shall also apply to inactive licensees who make application for an active license. Notwithstanding this requirement, military personnel called to active duty in the armed forces of the United States may complete the required continuing education within six months of their release from active duty.</p><p>C. The Board shall establish procedures for the carryover of continuing education credits completed by licensees from the licensee's current license period to the licensee's next renewal period.</p><p>D. The Board may grant exemptions or waive or reduce the number of continuing education hours required in cases of certified illness or undue hardship as demonstrated to the Board.</p><p>2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0809'>809</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0461'>461</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0750'>750</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0692'>692</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0334'>334</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0060'>60</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0086'>86</a>.</p>