# ยง 46.2-1207 Certification of disposal; reimbursement of locality by Commissioner.

<p>On certification by a locality on forms provided by the Department that an inoperable abandoned motor vehicle left on property within the locality has been disposed of as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1205/'>46.2-1205</a> or that an inoperable motor vehicle has been removed from the vehicle owner's property and disposed of by the locality or its authorized agent, the Commissioner shall reimburse the locality fifty dollars for each such motor vehicle disposed of at the expense of the locality. These reimbursements shall be made from appropriations made in the general appropriations act. In the event the appropriation is insufficient to satisfy requests for reimbursement, payments shall be made in chronological order on the basis of the date on which the requests were received. No payments, however, shall be made for requests received on any date until adequate funds are available to pay all requests received on that date. The Commissioner may promulgate regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of this section. These regulations shall include the requirement of the identification number or motor number of the vehicle for which reimbursement is applied, or an acceptable reason why that number is not furnished.</p><p>No reimbursement shall be made to any locality for vehicles which it acquires from sources outside its jurisdiction nor for vehicles it receives from dealers engaged in the business of dismantling used automobiles.</p><p>1974, c. 454, ยง 46.1-555.9; 1976, c. 196; 1986, cc. 10, 553; 1989, c. 727; 1990, c. 207; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0603'>603</a>.</p>