# ยง 5.1-2.9 Rents, fees and charges for services or use of facilities; use and disposition of revenues.

<p>The Board is hereby authorized to fix, revise, charge, and collect rates, fees, and other charges for the use of or for the services and facilities furnished by each airport project and the different parts thereof, and to contract with any person, partnership, association, or corporation desiring the use of any part thereof, and to fix the terms, conditions, rents and rates of charges for such use. Such rates, fees, and other charges shall be so fixed and adjusted that revenues of the Board, together with any other available funds, will be sufficient at all times to pay (i) the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating such airport project or projects, and (ii) the principal of and the interest on such bonds as the same shall become due and payable, and to create reserves for such purposes. Such rates, fees and other charges shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any other commission, board, bureau or agency of the Commonwealth. The revenues derived from the airport project or projects in connection with which the bonds shall have been issued, except such part thereof as may be necessary to pay such cost of maintenance, repair, and operation and to provide such reserves therefor as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust agreement securing the same, shall be set aside at such regular intervals as may be provided in such resolution or such trust agreement in a sinking fund which is hereby pledged to, and charged with, the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds as the same shall become due, and the redemption price or the purchase price of bonds retired by call or purchase as therein provided. Such pledge shall be valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made, the revenues or other moneys so pledged and thereafter received by the Board shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind against the Board, irrespective of whether such parties have notice thereof. Neither the resolution nor any trust agreement by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded except in the records of the Board. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of such trust agreement. Except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or such trust agreement, such sinking fund shall be a fund for all such bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.</p><p>1980, c. 750.</p>