# ยง 56-54.3 Election to be regulated as a competitive telephone company.

<p>Any telephone company meeting the definition of a competitive telephone company may elect to be regulated as a competitive telephone company pursuant to the provisions of this chapter by providing written notice to the Commission of such election. The election shall be effective 30 days after receipt of the notice by the Commission unless (i) the Commission notifies the electing telephone company within that 30-day period that the telephone company does not meet the definition of a competitive telephone company and (ii) the Commission then commences a proceeding to challenge the election. In such a proceeding, interested parties shall be provided notice and an opportunity for a hearing. The Commission shall issue a final decision on any such proceeding challenging the election within 60 days of the electing telephone company's receipt of the Commission's notification of the commencement of the proceeding to challenge the election. A telephone company's election to be regulated as a competitive telephone company shall be deemed approved if the Commission fails to act within this 60-day period. A new entrant may elect to be regulated under this chapter when it applies for certification pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-265.4:4/'>56-265.4:4</a>. Such an election will be effective upon its certification as a competitive local exchange carrier.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0340'>340</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0376'>376</a>.</p>