# ยง 13.1-722.9 Conversion.

<p>A. By complying with this article, a domestic corporation may become (i) a domestic eligible entity or (ii) a foreign eligible entity if the conversion is permitted by the organic law of the foreign entity.</p><p>B. By complying with this article and applicable provisions of its organic law, a domestic eligible entity may become a domestic corporation. If procedures for the approval of a conversion are not provided by the organic law or organic rules of a domestic eligible entity, the conversion shall be adopted and approved in the same manner as a merger of that eligible entity. If the organic law or organic rules of a domestic eligible entity do not provide procedures for the approval of either a conversion or a merger, a plan of conversion may nonetheless be adopted and approved by the unanimous consent of all the interest holders of such eligible entity. In either such case, the conversion thereafter may be effected as provided in the other provisions of this article, and for purposes of applying this article in such a case:</p><p>1. The eligible entity, its members or interest holders, eligible interests, and organic rules taken together, shall be deemed to be a domestic corporation, shareholders, shares, and articles of incorporation, respectively and vice versa, as the context may require; and</p><p>2. If the business and affairs of the eligible entity are managed by a person or persons that are not identical to the members or interest holders, that person or persons shall be deemed to be the board of directors.</p><p>C. By complying with the provisions of this article applicable to foreign entities, a foreign eligible entity may become a domestic corporation if the organic law of the foreign eligible entity permits it to become a corporation in another jurisdiction and it has complied with said law in effecting the conversion.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B, unless otherwise provided for in Chapter 2.2 (ยง <a href='/vacode/50-73.79/'>50-73.79</a> et seq.) of Title 50, a domestic partnership that has filed either a statement of partnership authority or a statement of registration as a registered limited liability partnership with the Commission that is not canceled may become a domestic corporation pursuant to a plan of conversion that is approved by the domestic partnership in accordance with the provisions of this article.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0545'>545</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0288'>288</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1226'>1226</a>.</p>