# ยง 19.2-295.2 Postrelease supervision of felons sentenced for offenses committed on and after January 1, 1995, and on and after July 1, 2000.

<p>A. At the time the court imposes sentence upon a conviction for any felony offense committed (i) on or after January 1, 1995, the court may, and (ii) on or after July 1, 2000, shall, in addition to any other punishment imposed if such other punishment includes an active term of incarceration in a state or local correctional facility, except in cases in which the court orders a suspended term of confinement of at least six months, impose a term of incarceration, in addition to the active term, of not less than six months nor more than three years, as the court may determine. Such additional term shall be suspended and the defendant shall be ordered to be placed under postrelease supervision upon release from the active term of incarceration. The period of supervision shall be established by the court; however, such period shall not be less than six months nor more than three years. Periods of postrelease supervision imposed pursuant to this section upon more than one felony conviction may be ordered to run concurrently. Periods of postrelease supervision imposed pursuant to this section may be ordered to run concurrently with any period of probation the defendant may also be subject to serve.</p><p>B. The period of postrelease supervision shall be under the supervision and review of the Virginia Parole Board. The Board shall review each felon prior to release and establish conditions of postrelease supervision. Failure to successfully abide by such terms and conditions shall be grounds to terminate the period of postrelease supervision and recommit the defendant to the Department of Corrections or to the local correctional facility from which he was previously released. Procedures for any such termination and recommitment shall be conducted in the same manner as procedures for the revocation of parole.</p><p>C. Postrelease supervision programs shall be operated through the probation and parole districts established pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/53.1-141/'>53.1-141</a>.</p><p>D. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the court from exercising any authority otherwise granted by law.</p><p>1994, 2nd Sp. Sess., cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0574'>574</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1115'>1115</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1116'>1116</a>.</p>