# § 3.2-901 Powers and duties of Commissioner.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall conduct investigations and surveys to determine economic losses or public nuisances caused by nuisance birds and may develop a plan of action when he has determined that they are causing or about to cause economic losses in the Commonwealth, are detrimental to the public health and welfare, or otherwise create a public nuisance.</p><p>B. The Commissioner may provide technical assistance to persons for the suppression of any nuisance birds when it has been determined that they are defacing or defiling public or private property.</p><p>C. The Commissioner may appoint an advisory committee to evaluate facts in any particular situation and to make recommendations to him on the course of action. Plan of action programs shall be selected and executed so as to protect human life, other birds, and wildlife.</p><p>D. The Commissioner may upon receipt of a complaint of a nuisance bird problem from an individual property owner, tenant, or sharecropper, make an investigation and determine the degree of assistance required. If after such investigation the Commissioner finds suppression necessary, he shall recommend acceptable means and methods.</p><p>E. The Commissioner may provide assistance and cooperate with federal agencies, other state agencies, other states, political subdivisions of the Commonwealth, public and private agencies, organizations, institutions, and persons in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him by this chapter. Any plan of action conducted by the Commissioner under the provisions of this chapter shall be consistent with other applicable state and federal laws. Money accepted from any cooperator or person shall be deposited to a special nuisance bird fund to be expended in the enforcement of this chapter.</p><p>1968, c. 64, §§ 3.1-1013, 3.1-1014, 3.1-1015, 3.1-1019; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>