# § 58.1-307 Disposition of returns; handling of state income tax payments; audit.

<p>A. As soon as the individual and fiduciary income tax returns have been received by the commissioner of the revenue and entered upon the assessment sheets or forms, the commissioner of the revenue shall forward such returns to the Department. The Department, however, may authorize the commissioner of the revenue to retain such returns for such length of time as may be necessary to enable him to review them under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-305/'>58.1-305</a> and to use them in ascertaining delinquents. As soon as practicable after each such return is received by the Department, it shall examine and audit it. Except in criminal and internal investigations, the Department shall conduct its audits, inspections of records, and meetings with taxpayers at reasonable times and places. For purposes of informal meetings on appeals under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1821/'>58.1-1821</a>, Richmond shall be a reasonable place to meet.</p><p>B. If any income tax return filed with and received by the commissioner of the revenue or director of finance or other assessing officer is accompanied by payment, in whole or in part, of the liability shown on such return, such officer, within two banking days of receipt of such return, shall deliver such payment or payments to the treasurer. The commissioner of the revenue or director of finance or other assessing officer shall maintain a record of the date on which such payments are received and shall also record the date on which such payments are delivered to the treasurer. The Auditor of Public Accounts shall either prescribe or approve the commissioner of the revenue's or director of finance's or other assessing officer's record-keeping system and shall audit such records as provided for in Chapter 14 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-130/'>30-130</a> et seq.) of Title 30. The Auditor, in his discretion, upon a showing of hardship making it difficult to comply with these requirements, may prescribe or approve alternative arrangements intended to accomplish the same result. The treasurer shall act in accordance with subsection B of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-806/'>2.2-806</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3168/'>58.1-3168</a> in the handling, deposit, and accounting of such payments.</p><p>Code 1950, § 58-151.070; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 171; 1984, c. 675; 1991, c. 485; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0634'>634</a>.</p>