# § 38.2-1329 Registration of insurers that are members of holding company system.

<p>A. Each insurer licensed to do business in the Commonwealth that is a member of an insurance holding company system shall register with the Commission.</p><p>B. 1. This section shall not apply to any foreign insurer subject to disclosure requirements and standards adopted by statute or regulation in the jurisdiction of its domicile that are substantially similar to those contained in this section, subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1330/'>38.2-1330</a>, subsection D of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1330/'>38.2-1330</a>, § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1330.1/'>38.2-1330.1</a>, and either (i) a provision substantially similar to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1330/'>38.2-1330</a> or (ii) a provision such as the following: "Each registered insurer shall keep current the information required to be disclosed in its registration statement by reporting all material changes or additions within 15 days after the end of the month in which it learns of each change or addition."</p><p>2. Any insurer that is subject to registration under this section shall register within 15 days after it becomes subject to registration, and annually thereafter by April 30 of each year for the previous calendar year, unless the Commission for good cause shown extends the time for registration, and then within the extended time.</p><p>3. Any licensed insurer that is a member of an insurance holding company system but not subject to registration under this section may be required by the Commission to furnish a copy of the registration statement, or other information filed by the insurer, with the insurance regulatory authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction.</p><p>C. Each insurer subject to registration under this section shall file a registration statement on a form provided by the Commission. Such statement shall contain current information on:</p><p>1. The capital structure, general financial condition, ownership, and management of the insurer and any person controlling the insurer;</p><p>2. The identity of every member of the insurance holding company system;</p><p>3. The following agreements in force, continuing relationships and transactions currently outstanding between the insurer and its affiliates:</p><p>a. Loans, other investments, or purchases, sales or exchanges of securities of the affiliates by the insurer or of the insurer by its affiliates;</p><p>b. Purchases, sales, or exchanges of assets;</p><p>c. Transactions not in the ordinary course of business;</p><p>d. Guarantees or undertakings for the benefit of an affiliate that result in an actual contingent exposure of the insurer's assets to liability, other than insurance contracts entered into in the ordinary course of the insurer's business;</p><p>e. All management and service contracts and all cost-sharing arrangements;</p><p>f. Reinsurance agreements or other risk-sharing arrangements;</p><p>g. Dividends and other distributions to shareholders; and</p><p>h. Consolidated tax allocation agreements;</p><p>4. Any pledge of the insurer's stock, including stock of any subsidiary or controlling affiliate, for a loan made to any member of the insurance holding company system;</p><p>5. If requested by the Commission, financial statements of or within an insurance holding company system, including all affiliates. Financial statements may include but are not limited to annual audited financial statements filed with the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. An insurer required to file financial statements pursuant to this subdivision may satisfy the request by providing the Commission with the most recently filed parent corporation financial statements that have been filed with the SEC;</p><p>6. Other matters relating to transactions between registered insurers and any affiliates which may be included from time to time in any registration forms adopted or approved by the Commission;</p><p>7. Statements that the corporate governance and internal controls are managed under the direction of the insurer's board of directors in a manner consistent with § <a href='/vacode/13.1-673/'>13.1-673</a> or § <a href='/vacode/13.1-853/'>13.1-853</a> as applicable, and that the insurer's officers or senior management have approved, implemented, and continue to maintain and monitor corporate governance and internal control procedures; and</p><p>8. Any other information required by the Commission by rule or regulation.</p><p>D. All registration statements shall contain a summary outlining all items in the current registration statement representing changes from the prior registration statement.</p><p>E. If information is not material for the purposes of this section, it need not be disclosed on the registration statement filed pursuant to subsection C. Unless the Commission prescribes otherwise and except for the purposes of subsections M and N, sales, purchases, exchanges, loans or extensions of credit, investments, or guarantees involving one-half of one percent or less of an insurer's admitted assets as of the immediately preceding December 31 shall not be deemed material for purposes of this section.</p><p>F. Each registered insurer shall report all additional material transactions with affiliates and any material changes in previously reported material transactions with affiliates on amendment forms provided by the Commission. Each insurer shall make its report within 15 days after the end of the month in which it learns of each additional material transaction or material change in material transaction. Subject to § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1330.1/'>38.2-1330.1</a>, each insurer shall report to the Commission all dividends and other distributions to shareholders within five business days following their declaration, and such declaration shall confer no rights upon shareholders until:</p><p>1. The Commission has approved the payment of such dividend or distribution; or</p><p>2. Thirty days after the Commission has received written notice of the declaration thereof and has not within such period disapproved such payment.</p><p>Each registered insurer shall also keep current the information required by subsection C by filing an amendment to its registration statement within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the ultimate controlling person of the insurance holding company system.</p><p>G. The Commission shall terminate the registration of any insurer that demonstrates it no longer is a member of an insurance holding company system.</p><p>H. The Commission may require or allow two or more affiliated insurers subject to registration under this section to file a consolidated registration statement or consolidated reports amending their consolidated registration statement or their individual registration statements.</p><p>I. The Commission may allow an insurer that is authorized to do business in this Commonwealth and that is part of an insurance holding company system to register on behalf of any affiliated insurer required to register under subsection A and to file all information and material required to be filed under this section.</p><p>J. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any insurer, information, or transaction if and to the extent that the Commission by rule, regulation, or order shall exempt the same from the provisions of this section.</p><p>K. Any person may file with the Commission a disclaimer of affiliation with any authorized insurer. The disclaimer shall fully disclose all material relationships and bases for affiliation between the person and the insurer as well as the basis for disclaiming the affiliation. A disclaimer of affiliation shall be deemed to have been granted unless the Commission, within 30 days following receipt of a complete disclaimer, notifies the filing party the disclaimer is disallowed. In the event of disallowance, the disclaiming party may request a hearing. The disclaiming party shall be relieved of its duty to register under this section if approval of the disclaimer has been granted by the Commission or if the disclaimer is deemed to have been approved.</p><p>L. The ultimate controlling person of every insurer subject to registration shall also file an annual enterprise risk report. The report shall be appropriate to the nature, scale, and complexity of the operations of the insurance holding company system, and shall, to the best of the ultimate controlling person's knowledge and belief, identify the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose enterprise risk to the insurer. The report shall be filed with the lead state commissioner.</p><p>M.  Except as provided below, the ultimate controlling person of every insurer subject to registration shall concurrently file with the registration an annual group capital calculation as directed by the lead state commissioner. The report shall be completed in accordance with the NAIC Group Capital Calculation Instructions, which may permit the lead state commissioner to allow a controlling person that is not the ultimate controlling person to file the group capital calculation. The report shall be filled with the lead state commissioner of the insurance holding company system. The following insurance holding company systems are exempt from filing the group capital calculation:</p><p>1. An insurance holding company system that has only one insurer within its holding company structure, that only writes business and is only licensed in its domestic state, and that assumes no business from any other insurer.</p><p>2. Any insurance holding company system that is required to perform a group capital calculation specified by the Federal Reserve Board. The lead state commissioner shall request the calculation from the Federal Reserve Board under the terms of information sharing agreements in effect. However, if the Federal Reserve Board cannot share the calculation with the lead state commissioner, the insurance holding company shall not be exempt from filing the group capital calculation.</p><p>3. An insurance holding company system whose non-U.S. group-wide supervisor is located within a reciprocal jurisdiction as described in subsection E of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1316.2/'>38.2-1316.2</a> that recognizes the U.S. state regulatory approach to group supervision and group capital.</p><p>4. An insurance holding system:</p><p>a. That provides information to the lead state that meets the requirements for accreditation under the NAIC financial standards and accreditation program, either directly or indirectly through the group-wide supervisor, who has determined such information is satisfactory to allow the lead state to comply with the NAIC group supervision approach, as detailed in the NAIC Financial Analysis Handbook; and</p><p>b. Whose non-U.S. group-wide supervisor that is not located in a reciprocal jurisdiction recognizes and accepts, as specified by the Commission in regulation, the group capital calculation as the worldwide group capital assessment for the U.S. insurance groups that operate in that jurisdiction.</p><p>Notwithstanding the exemptions provided for in subdivisions 3 and 4, a lead state commissioner shall require the group capital calculation for U.S. operations of any non-U.S.-based insurance holding company system where, after any necessary consultation with other supervisors or officials, it is deemed appropriate by the lead state commissioner for prudential oversight and solvency monitoring purposes or for ensuring the competitiveness of the insurance market.</p><p>Notwithstanding the exemptions provided for in subdivisions 1 through 4, the lead state commissioner has the discretion to exempt the ultimate controlling person from filing the annual group capital calculation or to accept a limited group capital filing or report in accordance with criteria as specified by the Commission in regulation.</p><p>If the lead state commissioner determines that an insurance holding company system no longer meets one or more of the requirements for an exemption specified in subdivisions 1 through 4, the insurance holding company system shall file the group capital calculation at the next annual filing date unless given an extension by the lead state commissioner based on reasonable grounds shown.</p><p>N. The ultimate controlling person of every insurer subject to registration and scoped into the NAIC Liquidity Stress Test Framework shall file the results of a specific year's liquidity stress test. The filing shall be made to the lead state commissioner of the insurance holding company system.</p><p>1. Any change to the NAIC Liquidity Stress Test Framework or to the data year for which the scope criteria are to be measured shall be effective on January 1 of the year following the calendar year when such changes are adopted. Insurers meeting at least one threshold of the scope criteria are considered scoped in the Framework for the specified data year unless the lead state commissioner, in consultation with the NAIC Financial Stability Task Force or its successor, determines the insurer should not be scoped into the Framework for that data year. Insurers that do not trigger at least one threshold of the scope criteria shall be considered scoped out of the Framework for the specified data year, unless the lead state commissioner, in consultation with the NAIC Financial Stability Task Force or its successor, determines the insurer should be scoped into the Framework for that data year.</p><p>2. The performance of and filing of the results from a specific year's liquidity stress test shall comply with Framework's instructions and reporting templates for that year and any lead state commissioner determinations, in consultation with the NAIC Financial Stability Task Force or its successor, provided within the Framework.</p><p>O. The failure to file a registration statement or any summary of the registration statement or enterprise risk filing required by this section within the time specified for filing shall be a violation of this section.</p><p>1973, c. 505, § 38.1-178.2; 1977, c. 414; 1986, c. 562; 1992, c. 588; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0046'>46</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0577'>577</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0717'>717</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0309'>309</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0113'>113</a>.</p>