# ยง 59.1-544 Amendment of enterprise zones; redesignation of certain joint enterprise zones.

<p>A. Once an enterprise zone has been designated, the local government may make written application to the Department to amend the zone boundaries in accordance with the requirements of ยง <a href='/vacode/59.1-542/'>59.1-542</a>. Such boundary amendments are subject to Department approval. Any amendment to an enterprise zone that includes the elimination of an area or areas from a zone shall not exceed the maximum size provisions of subsection C of ยง <a href='/vacode/59.1-542/'>59.1-542</a> and shall be reviewed by the Department with the potential impact on affected businesses and property owners given primary consideration. Local governing bodies may amend their local enterprise zone incentives with the approval of the Department provided that the proposed incentive is equal to or superior to that in the original application or any previous amendment approved by the Department.</p><p>B. The Department may redesignate an existing joint enterprise zone consisting of two localities for the purpose of expanding the zone provided (i) all of the local governing bodies of the localities in which the proposed redesignated zone will be located have submitted to the Department resolutions supporting the proposed redesignation and applications for redesignation of the joint enterprise zone and (ii) the area of the locality added to the redesignated zone is contiguous to the existing joint enterprise zone and includes a revenue-sharing district that has experienced the loss of 900 permanent full-time positions within a 12-month period.</p><p>C. When a county or city was previously added to an existing enterprise zone to create a joint enterprise zone, the Department shall redesignate the enterprise zone when the term of the joint enterprise zone expires. The duration of the enterprise zone redesignated pursuant to this subsection shall be equal to the length of time the original enterprise zone existed before the county or city was added to create the joint enterprise zone.</p><p>D. As used in this section, "joint enterprise zone" means an enterprise zone located in two or more adjacent localities.</p><p>E. Any redesignation of an existing joint enterprise zone shall be in compliance with all applicable regulations promulgated by the Department.</p><p>2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0863'>863</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0884'>884</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0254'>254</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0310'>310</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0514'>514</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0315'>315</a>.</p>