# § 58.1-3832.1 Regional cigarette tax boards.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Member locality" means a locality that elects to become a member of a regional cigarette tax board and have its local cigarette tax administered by the board.</p><p>"Region" means the group of localities for which the regional cigarette tax board administers local cigarette taxes.</p><p>"Regional cigarette tax board" means a board established by a group of at least six member localities pursuant to their powers under this article, Chapter 13 (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-1300/'>15.2-1300</a> et seq.) of Title 15.2, and the Regional Cooperation Act (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-4200/'>15.2-4200</a> et seq.), with the purpose of administering local cigarette taxes on a regional basis subject to the provisions of this section.</p><p>B. A regional cigarette tax board shall have the following duties:</p><p>1. Providing for the use of a uniform meter impression or stamp as evidence of payment of any local cigarette tax within the region.</p><p>2. Entering into an arrangement, on behalf of or in cooperation with its member localities, with the Department pursuant to the provisions of subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-3830/'>58.1-3830</a>, for the use of a dual die or stamp as evidence of payment of any applicable local and state tax.</p><p>3. Providing a single point of contact for a stamping agent authorized under this article or Chapter 10 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-1000/'>58.1-1000</a>) to remit local cigarette taxes due to any member locality.</p><p>4. Providing a discount to a stamping agent as compensation for accounting for the tax due under this article. The discount shall be in the amount of two percent of the tax otherwise due.</p><p>5. Distributing any local cigarette taxes collected by the board to the appropriate member locality.</p><p>6. Enforcing all local cigarette tax ordinances within the region.</p><p>7. Promoting uniformity of cigarette tax ordinances among its member localities.</p><p>8. To the extent possible, encouraging uniformity of cigarette tax rates among its member localities.</p><p>9. Allowing persons with unsold inventory subject to tax increase to pay such increase by filing a return consistent with the provisions of subsection D of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-3830/'>58.1-3830</a>.</p><p>10. Accomplishing any other purpose that helps promote the uniform administration of local cigarette taxes throughout the region.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0061'>61</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0223'>223</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0224'>224</a>.</p>