# ยง 2.2-2545 (Expires July 1, 2027) Membership; terms.

<p>A. The Commission shall have a total membership of 27 members that shall consist of five legislative members, 17 nonlegislative citizen members, and five ex officio members. Members shall be appointed as follows:</p><p>1. Two members of the Senate, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules;</p><p>2. Three members of the House of Delegates, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates;</p><p>3. One representative from each of the lead commemoration partners: the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation, the primary state agency and fiscal agent; the Virginia Museum of History & Culture, the primary nonstate agency; and Gunston Hall, the primary representative of Virginia's historic homes and related sites;</p><p>4. One representative from the American Battlefield Trust, the secretariat of the United States Semiquincentennial Commission, and one representative from the Virginia Bar Association;</p><p>5. Six members appointed by the Governor from a list of 10 provided by the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation; and</p><p>6. Six members appointed by the Governor from a list of 10 provided by the Virginia Museum of History & Culture.</p><p>The Secretary of Education, the Librarian of Virginia, the Director of the Department of Historic Resources, the Executive Director of Virginia Humanities, and the Chief Executive Officer of the Virginia Tourism Authority, or their designees, shall serve as ex officio members with voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Commission shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership.</p><p>C.  Legislative members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for the duration of the Commission's activities. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0914'>914</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0915'>915</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0685'>685</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0687'>687</a>.</p>