# § 10.1-1602 Board of directors.

<p>The Authority shall be governed by a board of directors consisting of 19 members who shall be appointed as follows: two members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; four members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; and 13 nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor, upon consideration of the recommendation of the River Foundation, if any, and subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Authority shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>Legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of five years. Vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled for the unexpired portion of the term in the same manner as original appointments are made. All members may be reappointed.</p><p>Immediately after appointment, the directors shall enter upon the performance of their duties. The Board shall annually elect a chairman and vice-chairman from its members, and shall also elect annually a secretary, who may or may not be a member of the Board. The Board may also elect other subordinate officers who may or may not be members of the Board, as it deems proper. Seven directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the Authority, and no vacancy in the membership of the Board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Authority. The Board may employ an executive director to direct the day-to-day activities of the Authority and carry out the powers and duties delegated to him. The executive director shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. The executive director and employees of the Authority shall be compensated in the manner provided by the Board and shall not be subject to the provisions of the Virginia Personnel Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2900/'>2.2-2900</a> et seq.).</p><p>Legislative members of the Authority shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>, and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive such compensation for the performance of their duties as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a>. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Virginia Recreational Facilities Authority.</p><p>1986, c. 360, § 10-158.4; 1988, c. 891; 1989, c. 226; 1990, c. 210; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0768'>768</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0022'>22</a>.</p>