# ยง 4.1-103.02 Additional powers; substance abuse prevention; Virginia Institutions of Higher Education Substance Use Advisory Committee established.

<p>It shall be the responsibility of the Board to administer a substance abuse prevention program within the Commonwealth and to (i) coordinate substance abuse prevention activities of agencies of the Commonwealth in such program, (ii) review substance abuse prevention program expenditures by agencies of the Commonwealth, and (iii) determine the direction and appropriateness of such expenditures. The Board shall cooperate with federal, state, and local agencies, private and public agencies, interested organizations, and individuals in order to prevent substance abuse within the Commonwealth. The Board shall report annually by December 1 of each year to the Governor and the General Assembly on the substance abuse prevention activities of the Commonwealth.</p><p>The Board shall also establish and appoint members to the Virginia Institutions of Higher Education Substance Use Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee). The goal of the Advisory Committee shall be to develop and update a statewide strategic plan for substance use education, prevention, and intervention at Virginia's public and private institutions of higher education. The strategic plan shall (a) incorporate the use of best practices, which may include, but not be limited to, student-led peer-to-peer education and college or other institution of higher education recovery programs; (b) provide for the collection of statewide data from all institutions of higher education on student alcohol and substance use; (c) assist institutions of higher education in developing their individual strategic plans by providing networking and training resources and materials; and (d) develop and maintain reporting guidelines for use by institutions of higher education in their individual strategic plans.</p><p>The Advisory Committee shall consist of representatives from Virginia's public and private institutions of higher education, including students and directors of student health, and such other members as the Board may deem appropriate. The Advisory Committee's membership shall be broadly representative of individuals from both public and private institutions of higher education.</p><p>The Advisory Committee shall submit an annual report on its activities to the Governor and the General Assembly on or before December 1 each year.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0210'>210</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0211'>211</a>.</p>