# § 2.2-5207 Family assessment and planning team; membership; immunity from liability.

<p>Each community policy and management team shall establish and appoint one or more family assessment and planning teams as the needs of the community require. Each family assessment and planning team shall include representatives of the following community agencies who have authority to access services within their respective agencies: community services board established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/37.2-501/'>37.2-501</a>, juvenile court services unit, department of social services, and local school division. Each family and planning team also shall include a parent representative and may include a representative of the department of health at the request of the chair of the local community policy and management team. Parent representatives who are employed by a public or private program that receives funds pursuant to this chapter or agencies represented on a family assessment and planning team may serve as a parent representative provided that parent representatives who are not employed by a public or private program that receives funds pursuant to this chapter or agencies represented on a family assessment and planning team are prioritized for participation where practicable. The family assessment and planning team may include a representative of a private organization or association of providers for children's or family services and of other public agencies.</p><p>Persons who serve on a family assessment and planning team shall be immune from any civil liability for decisions made about the appropriate services for a family or the proper placement or treatment of a child who comes before the team, unless it is proven that such person acted with malicious intent. Any person serving on such team who does not represent a public agency shall file a statement of economic interests as set out in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-3117/'>2.2-3117</a> of the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3100/'>2.2-3100</a> et seq.). Persons representing public agencies shall file such statements if required to do so pursuant to the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act.</p><p>Persons serving on the team who are parent representatives or who represent private organizations or associations of providers for children's or family services shall abstain from decision-making involving individual cases or agencies in which they have either a personal interest, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-3101/'>2.2-3101</a> of the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act, or a fiduciary interest.</p><p>1992, cc. 837, 880, § 2.1-753; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0190'>190</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0644'>644</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0483'>483</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0419'>419</a>.</p>