# § 9.1-216 Enforcement; civil penalties.

<p>A. A manufacturer or other person who knowingly sells or offers for sale cigarettes other than by retail sale in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-210/'>9.1-210</a> shall be subject to a civil penalty not exceeding $100 for each such pack of cigarettes sold or offered for sale, provided that in no case shall the civil penalty assessed against any such person exceed $100,000 for sales or offers for sale during any 30-day period.</p><p>B. A retailer who knowingly sells cigarettes in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-210/'>9.1-210</a> shall be subject to a civil penalty not exceeding $100 for each pack of such cigarettes sold or offered for sale, provided that in no case shall the civil penalty assessed against any retailer exceed $25,000 for sales or offers for sale during any 30-day period.</p><p>C. Any person who violates any other provision of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for the first violation. The civil penalty for each subsequent violation shall not exceed $5,000.</p><p>D. A manufacturer who knowingly makes a false certification under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-211/'>9.1-211</a> shall be subject to a civil penalty of at least $75,000 and not exceeding $250,000 for each false certification.</p><p>E. A civil penalty may be assessed by the Director only after the Director has consulted with the State Fire Marshal and has given the manufacturer charged with making such a false certification an opportunity for a public hearing. Where such a public hearing has been held, the Director shall make findings of fact and issue a written decision as to the occurrence of the violation and the amount of the penalty that is warranted, incorporating, when appropriate, an order therein requiring that the penalty be paid. Any hearing under this section shall be a formal adjudicatory hearing in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). When the person charged with such a violation fails to avail himself of the opportunity for a public hearing, a civil penalty shall be assessed by the Director after the Director determines that a violation has occurred and the amount of the penalty is warranted and issues an order requiring that the penalty be paid.</p><p>F. The Director may collect civil penalties that are owed in the same manner as provided by law in respect to judgment of a court of record. Such civil penalties shall be paid into the Cigarette Fire Safety Standard and Firefighter Protection Act Fund referenced in subsection F of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-211/'>9.1-211</a> and used in carrying out the purposes of this chapter.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0370'>370</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>.</p>