# § 2.2-2009 Additional duties of the CIO relating to security of government information.

<p>A. To provide for the security of state government electronic information from unauthorized uses, intrusions or other security threats, the CIO shall direct the development of policies, standards, and guidelines for assessing security risks, determining the appropriate security measures and performing security audits of government electronic information. Such policies, standards, and guidelines shall apply to the Commonwealth's executive, legislative, and judicial branches and independent agencies. The CIO shall work with representatives of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and Joint Rules Committee of the General Assembly to identify their needs. Such policies, standards, and guidelines shall, at a minimum:</p><p>1. Address the scope and frequency of security audits. In developing and updating such policies, standards, and guidelines, the CIO shall designate a government entity to oversee, plan, and coordinate the conduct of periodic security audits of all executive branch agencies and independent agencies. The CIO shall coordinate these audits with the Auditor of Public Accounts and the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission. The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the Joint Rules Committee of the General Assembly shall determine the most appropriate methods to review the protection of electronic information within their branches;</p><p>2. Control unauthorized uses, intrusions, or other security threats;</p><p>3. Provide for the protection of confidential data maintained by state agencies against unauthorized access and use in order to ensure the security and privacy of citizens of the Commonwealth in their interaction with state government. Such policies, standards, and guidelines shall include requirements that (i) any state employee or other authorized user of a state technology asset provide passwords or other means of authentication to use a technology asset and access a state-owned or state-operated computer network or database and (ii) a digital rights management system or other means of authenticating and controlling an individual's ability to access electronic records be utilized to limit access to and use of electronic records that contain confidential information to authorized individuals;</p><p>4. Address the creation and operation of a risk management program designed to identify information technology security gaps and develop plans to mitigate the gaps. All agencies in the Commonwealth shall cooperate with the CIO, including (i) providing the CIO with information required to create and implement a Commonwealth risk management program, (ii) creating an agency risk management program, and (iii) complying with all other risk management activities; and</p><p>5. Require that any contract for information technology entered into by the Commonwealth's executive, legislative, and judicial branches and independent agencies require compliance with applicable federal laws and regulations pertaining to information security and privacy.</p><p>B. 1. The CIO shall annually report to the Governor, the Secretary, and General Assembly on the results of security audits, the extent to which security policy, standards, and guidelines have been adopted by executive branch and independent agencies, and a list of those executive branch agencies and independent agencies that have not implemented acceptable security and risk management regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines to control unauthorized uses, intrusions, or other security threats. For any executive branch agency or independent agency whose security audit results and plans for corrective action are unacceptable, the CIO shall report such results to (i) the Secretary, (ii) any other affected cabinet secretary, (iii) the Governor, and (iv) the Auditor of Public Accounts. Upon review of the security audit results in question, the CIO may take action to suspend the executive branch agency's or independent agency's information technology projects pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2016.1/'>2.2-2016.1</a>, limit additional information technology investments pending acceptable corrective actions, and recommend to the Governor and Secretary any other appropriate actions.</p><p>2. Executive branch agencies and independent agencies subject to such audits as required by this section shall fully cooperate with the entity designated to perform such audits and bear any associated costs. Public bodies that are not required to but elect to use the entity designated to perform such audits shall also bear any associated costs.</p><p>C. In addition to coordinating security audits as provided in subdivision B 1, the CIO shall conduct an annual comprehensive review of cybersecurity policies of every executive branch agency, with a particular focus on any breaches in information technology that occurred in the reviewable year and any steps taken by agencies to strengthen cybersecurity measures. Upon completion of the annual review, the CIO shall issue a report of his findings to the Chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations. Such report shall not contain technical information deemed by the CIO to be security sensitive or information that would expose security vulnerabilities.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section shall not infringe upon responsibilities assigned to the Comptroller, the Auditor of Public Accounts, or the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission by other provisions of the Code of Virginia.</p><p>E. The CIO shall promptly receive reports from public bodies in the Commonwealth made in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/2.2-5514/'>2.2-5514</a> and shall take such actions as are necessary, convenient, or desirable to ensure the security of the Commonwealth's electronic information and confidential data.</p><p>F. The CIO shall provide technical guidance to the Department of General Services in the development of policies, standards, and guidelines for the recycling and disposal of computers and other technology assets. Such policies, standards, and guidelines shall include the expunging, in a manner as determined by the CIO, of all confidential data and personal identifying information of citizens of the Commonwealth prior to such sale, disposal, or other transfer of computers or other technology assets.</p><p>G. The CIO shall provide all directors of agencies and departments with all such information, guidance, and assistance required to ensure that agencies and departments understand and adhere to the policies, standards, and guidelines developed pursuant to this section.</p><p>H. The CIO shall promptly notify all public bodies as defined in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-5514/'>2.2-5514</a> of hardware, software, or services that have been prohibited pursuant to Chapter 55.3 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-5514/'>2.2-5514</a>).</p><p>I. 1. This subsection applies to the Commonwealth's executive, legislative, and judicial branches and independent agencies.</p><p>2. In collaboration with the heads of executive branch and independent agencies and representatives of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the Joint Rules Committee of the General Assembly, the CIO shall develop and annually update a curriculum and materials for training all state employees in information security awareness and in proper procedures for detecting, assessing, reporting, and addressing information security threats. The curriculum shall include activities, case studies, hypothetical situations, and other methods of instruction (i) that focus on forming good information security habits and procedures among state employees and (ii) that teach best practices for detecting, assessing, reporting, and addressing information security threats.</p><p>3. Every state agency shall provide annual information security training for each of its employees using the curriculum and materials developed by the CIO pursuant to subdivision 2. Employees shall complete such training within 30 days of initial employment and by January 31 each year thereafter.</p><p>State agencies may develop additional training materials that address specific needs of such agency, provided that such materials do not contradict the training curriculum and materials developed by the CIO.</p><p>The CIO shall coordinate with and assist state agencies in implementing the annual information security training requirement.</p><p>4. Each state agency shall (i) monitor and certify the training activity of its employees to ensure compliance with the annual information security training requirement, (ii) evaluate the efficacy of the information security training program, and (iii) forward to the CIO such certification and evaluation, together with any suggestions for improving the curriculum and materials, or any other aspects of the training program. The CIO shall consider such evaluations when it annually updates its curriculum and materials.</p><p>2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0961'>961</a>, §§ 2.1-563.42 - 2.1-563.44; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>, §§ 2.2-136 - 2.2-138; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0247'>247</a>, § 2.2-226.1; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0981'>981</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1021'>1021</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0638'>638</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0769'>769</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0775'>775</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0136'>136</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0145'>145</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0768'>768</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0296'>296</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0664'>664</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0775'>775</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0302'>302</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0717'>717</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0626'>626</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0627'>627</a>.</p>