# § 32.1-162.15:2 (Effective July 1, 2023) Definitions.

<p>"Anonymous physical evidence recovery kit" has the same meaning as in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-11.5/'>19.2-11.5</a>.</p><p>"Approved pediatric health care facility" means a pediatric health care facility for which a plan for the delivery of services to pediatric survivors of sexual assault has been approved pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:6/'>32.1-162.15:6</a>.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Health.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Health.</p><p>"Emergency contraception" means medication approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration that can significantly reduce the risk of pregnancy if taken within 72 hours after sexual assault.</p><p>"Follow-up health care" means any physical examination, laboratory tests to determine the presence of sexually transmitted infection, or appropriate medications, including HIV-prophylaxis, provided to a survivor of sexual assault by a health care provider within 90 days after the date on which treatment or transfer services pursuant to this article are first provided.</p><p>"Forensic medical examination" means health care services provided to a survivor of sexual assault that include medical history, physical examination, laboratory testing, assessment for drug-facilitated or alcohol-facilitated sexual assault, collection of evidence in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 1.2 (§ <a href='/vacode/19.2-11.5/'>19.2-11.5</a> et seq.) of Title 19.2, and discharge and follow-up health care planning necessary to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the survivor of sexual assault and the collection and preservation of evidence that may be used in a criminal proceeding.</p><p>"Hospital" means any hospital licensed by the Department pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Pediatric health care facility" means a hospital, clinic, or physician's office that provides health care services to pediatric patients.</p><p>"Pediatric survivor of sexual assault" means a survivor of sexual assault who is under 18 years of age.</p><p>"Physical evidence recovery kit" has the same meaning as in § <a href='/vacode/19.2-11.5/'>19.2-11.5</a>.</p><p>"Sexual assault forensic examiner" means a sexual assault nurse examiner, physician, physician assistant, nurse practitioner, or registered nurse who has completed training that meets or is substantially similar to the Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner Education Guidelines established by the International Association of Forensic Nurses.</p><p>"Sexual assault survivor transfer services" means an appropriate medical examination and such stabilizing treatment as may be necessary prior to the transfer of a sexual assault survivor from a transfer hospital to a treatment hospital in accordance with the provisions of a transfer plan approved by the Department.</p><p>"Sexual assault survivor treatment services" means a forensic medical examination and other health care services provided to a sexual assault survivor by a hospital in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:4/'>32.1-162.15:4</a> or pediatric health care facility in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/32.1-162.15:6/'>32.1-162.15:6</a>.</p><p>"Transfer hospital" means a hospital with a sexual assault survivor transfer plan approved by the Department.</p><p>"Transportation service" means transportation provided to a survivor of sexual assault who is transferred from a transfer hospital, treatment hospital, or approved pediatric health care facility to a treatment hospital or approved pediatric care facility pursuant to a transfer plan approved in accordance with this article.</p><p>"Treatment hospital" means a hospital with a sexual assault survivor treatment plan approved by the Department to provide sexual assault survivor treatment services to all survivors of sexual assault who present with a complaint of sexual assault within the previous seven days or who have disclosed past sexual assault by a specific individual and were in the care of that individual within the previous seven days.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0725'>725</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0520'>520</a>.</p>