# § 15.2-1502 Employment of certain deputies and assistants; delegation of powers and duties.

<p>A. Local government officers may employ, when duly authorized by the governing body, deputies and assistants to aid them in carrying out their powers and duties. The provisions of this section and § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1503/'>15.2-1503</a> shall not be applicable to the constitutional offices of treasurer, commissioner of the revenue, sheriff, attorney for the Commonwealth and clerk of the circuit court.</p><p>B. "Deputy" means a person who is appointed to act as a substitute for his principal, in the name of the principal and in his behalf, in matters in which the principal himself may act; such person shall be a public officer. Members of governing bodies may not have or appoint deputies for themselves.</p><p>C. "Assistant" means a person who is not a public officer or deputy but who aids or helps a public officer.</p><p>D. Subject to the limitations and requirements of the preceding subsections, an officer of a locality may delegate, to a person reporting to him, his powers and duties unless it is some power or duty the exercise of which by another person is expressly forbidden by law or requires the exercise of judgment for the public welfare. However, such delegation shall not act to relieve the officer making such delegation of his legal obligations for the exercise of powers and performance of duties of his office.</p><p>Persons employed by virtue of this subsection shall be designated either deputy or assistant and shall take such oath and post such bond as may be required by ordinance.</p><p>1978, c. 264, §§ 15.1-19.4, 15.1-19.5; 1997, c. 587.</p>