# ยง 15.2-4704 Creation of district advisory boards.

<p>Within 30 days after the establishment of a district in accordance with the procedures provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-4702/'>15.2-4702</a>, the local governing body shall appoint a district advisory board of seven members. All members shall reside on or own or represent commercially or industrially zoned land within the district. Should there not be enough residents or landowners within a district to appoint a seven-member advisory board, then such board shall consist of the lesser number of existing residents or landowners. Each member shall be appointed for a definite term of four years, except the initial appointment of advisory board members shall provide that the terms of three of the members shall be for two years. If a vacancy occurs with respect to an advisory member initially appointed by the local governing body, or any successor of such a member, the local governing body shall appoint a new member who is a representative or owner of commercially or industrially zoned property within the local district.</p><p>The members shall serve without pay, but the local governing body shall provide the advisory board with facilities for holding meetings, and the commission shall appropriate funds needed to defray the reasonable expenses and fees of the advisory board, which shall not exceed $20,000 annually, including without limitation expenses and fees arising out of the preparation of the annual report. Such appropriations shall be based on an annual budget submitted by the board, and approved by the commission, sufficient to carry out its responsibilities under this chapter. The advisory board shall elect a chairman and a secretary and such other officers as it deems necessary. The board shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it shall meet at least once every year. Special meetings of the board shall be called by the chairman or by two members of the board upon written request to the secretary of the board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>The advisory board shall present an annual report to the commission on the transportation needs of the district and on the activities of the board, and the advisory board shall present special reports on transportation matters as requested by the commission or the local governing body of the locality concerning taxes to be levied pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-4706/'>15.2-4706</a>.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>.</p>