# ยง 15.2-929 Solid waste management facility siting approval.

<p>A. Any locality may enact an ordinance regulating the siting of solid waste management facilities within its boundaries. The ordinance shall prescribe the criteria, form of application, and procedure, which shall include a public hearing, for siting approval. In establishing the criteria, the locality shall consider the potential effect of the siting of a solid waste management facility on the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the locality. Any person desiring to site a solid waste management facility within the boundaries of any locality which has adopted an ordinance pursuant to this section shall file its application with the governing body of the locality. Within 120 days of the receipt of an application which complies with the provisions of the ordinance, the governing body shall grant or deny siting approval. Failure to act within 120 days shall constitute a granting of siting approval.</p><p>B. Whenever any governing body denies siting approval, the applicant shall be entitled to appeal such decision to the circuit court of the jurisdiction denying siting approval.</p><p>C. Any person who has already been issued a permit to operate a solid waste management facility by the Department of Environmental Quality or has received zoning or other land use approval for the siting of the facility, prior to July 1, 1989, shall not be required to obtain siting approval for such solid waste management facility pursuant to the provisions of this section.</p><p>1989, c. 623, ยง 15.1-11.02; 1997, c. 587.</p>