# ยง 46.2-2011.24 Grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking licenses, permits, or certificates.

<p>A license, permit, or certificate issued pursuant to this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds, where applicable:</p><p>1. Material misstatement or omission in application for license, certificate, permit, identification marker, or vehicle registration;</p><p>2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written warning from the Department or any willful failure to comply with a lawful order, any provision of this chapter or any regulation promulgated by the Department under this chapter, or any term, condition, or restriction of a license, permit, or certificate;</p><p>3. Failure to comply with zoning or other land use regulations, ordinances, or statutes;</p><p>4. Use of deceptive business acts or practices;</p><p>5. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact that is untrue, misleading, or deceptive relating to the conduct of the business for which a license, certificate, permit, identification marker, or vehicle registration is held or sought;</p><p>6. Having been found, through a judicial or administrative hearing, to have committed fraudulent or deceptive acts in connection with the business for which a license, permit, or certificate is held or sought or any consumer-related fraud;</p><p>7. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the business for which a license, permit, or certificate is held or sought;</p><p>8. Failure to comply with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-2056/'>46.2-2056</a> or any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto;</p><p>9. Improper leasing, renting, lending, or otherwise allowing the improper use of a license, certificate, permit, identification marker, or vehicle registration;</p><p>10. Having been convicted of a felony;</p><p>11. Having been convicted of any misdemeanor involving lying, cheating, stealing, or moral turpitude;</p><p>12. Failure to submit to the Department any tax, fees, dues, fines, or penalties owed to the Department;</p><p>13. Failure to furnish the Department information, documentation, or records required or requested pursuant to statute or regulation;</p><p>14. Knowingly and willfully filing any false report, account, record, or memorandum;</p><p>15. Failure to meet or maintain application certifications or requirements of public convenience and necessity, character, fitness, and financial responsibility pursuant to this chapter;</p><p>16. Willfully altering or changing the appearance or wording of any license, permit, certificate, identification marker, license plate, or vehicle registration;</p><p>17. Failure to provide services in accordance with license, permit, or certificate terms, limitations, conditions, or requirements;</p><p>18. Failure to maintain and keep on file with the Department motor carrier liability insurance, issued by a company licensed to do business in the Commonwealth, or a bond, certificate of insurance, certificate of self-insurance, or unconditional letter of credit in accordance with this chapter, with respect to each motor vehicle operated in the Commonwealth;</p><p>19. Failure to comply with the Workers' Compensation Act of Title 65.2;</p><p>20. Failure to properly register a motor vehicle under this title;</p><p>21. Failure to comply with any federal motor carrier statute, rule, or regulation;</p><p>22. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act or the Virginians with Disabilities Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.5-1/'>51.5-1</a> et seq.);</p><p>23. Inactivity of a motor carrier as may be evidenced by the absence of a motor vehicle registered to operate under such certificate or permit for a period of greater than three months; or</p><p>24. Failure to comply with any provision regarding the filing and registered agent requirements set forth in Title 13.1.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596'>596</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582'>582</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>.</p>