# ยง 2.2-2817.1 State agencies to establish alternative work schedules; reporting requirement.

<p>A. In accordance with the statewide telecommuting and alternative work schedule policy, to be developed by the Secretary of Administration pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-203.1/'>2.2-203.1</a>, the head of each state agency shall establish a telecommuting and alternative work policy under which eligible employees of such agency may telecommute, participate in alternative work schedules, or both, to the maximum extent possible without diminished employee performance or service delivery. The policy shall identify types of employees eligible for telecommuting and alternative work schedules, the broad categories of positions determined to be ineligible for telecommuting and the justification therefor, any benefits of telecommuting including the use of alternate work locations that are separate from the agency's central workplace, and any benefits of using alternative work schedules. The policy shall promote use of Commonwealth information technology assets where feasible but may allow for eligible employees to use computers, computing devices, or related electronic equipment not owned or leased by the Commonwealth to telecommute, if such use is technically and economically practical, and so long as such use meets information security standards as established by the Virginia Information Technologies Agency, or receives an exception from such standards approved by the CIO of the Commonwealth or his designee. The policy shall be updated periodically as necessary.</p><p>B. The head of each agency shall set annual percentage targets for the number of positions eligible for alternative work schedules. By July 1, 2009, each state agency shall have a goal of not less than 25 percent of its eligible workforce participating in alternative work schedules. By January 1, 2010, each state agency, except the Department of State Police, shall have a goal of not less than 20 percent of its eligible workforce telecommuting.</p><p>C. The head of each state agency shall annually report to the Secretary of Administration or his designee on the status and efficiency of telecommuting and participation in alternative work schedules and concerning specific budget requests for information technology, software, telecommunications connectivity (i.e., broadband Internet access, additional telephone lines, and online collaborative tools), or other equipment or services needed to increase opportunities for telecommuting and participation in alternate work locations.</p><p>D. As used in this section:</p><p>"Alternate work locations" means approved locations other than the employee's central workplace where official state business is performed. Such locations may include, but not be limited to the home of an employee and satellite offices.</p><p>"Alternative work schedule" means schedules that differ from the standard workweek, 40-hour workweek schedule, if such schedules are deemed to promote efficient agency operations. Alternative work schedules may include, but not be limited to, four 10-hour days, rotational shifts, and large-scale job sharing.</p><p>"Central workplace" means an employer's place of work where employees normally are located.</p><p>"Telecommuting" means a work arrangement in which supervisors direct or permit employees to perform their usual job duties away from their central workplace at least one day per week and in accordance with work agreements.</p><p>"Work agreement" means a written agreement between the employer and employee that details the terms and conditions of an employee's work away from his central workplace.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>, ยง 2.1-20.1:9; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0755'>755</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0421'>421</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0137'>137</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0374'>374</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0375'>375</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0180'>180</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>.</p>