# ยง 46.2-1583 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Certificate of qualification" means a designation issued by the Board acknowledging that the individual has been certified by the Board as an independent dealer-operator pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-1511/'>46.2-1511</a>.</p><p>"Course" means a course of study leading to recertification for independent dealer-operators offered by correspondence, electronically, or in person.</p><p>"Course provider" or "provider" means any person or entity presenting or offering one or more recertification education courses.</p><p>"Exam" or "examination" means a test administered by the Board.</p><p>"Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Board.</p><p>"Independent dealer-operator" means the individual who works at the established place of business of an independent motor vehicle dealer and who is responsible for and in charge of day-to-day operations of that place of business.</p><p>"Independent motor vehicle dealer" or "independent dealer" means a dealer in used motor vehicles that is not also licensed as a franchised motor vehicle dealer.</p><p>"Original application" means an application for an independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification from an applicant who has never been issued an independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification in Virginia or whose Virginia independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification has been expired for more than 60 days.</p><p>"Recertification" means completing the requirements of this article to recertify an independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification.</p><p>2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0574'>574</a>.</p>