# ยง 15.2-910 Ordinance certifying boiler and pressure vessel operators; penalty.

<p>A. Any locality may by ordinance require any person who engages in, or offers to engage in, for the general public for compensation, the operation or maintenance of a boiler or pressure vessel in such locality, to obtain a certificate from the locality.</p><p>B. The ordinance shall require the applicant for such certificate to furnish evidence of his ability and proficiency; shall require the examination of every such applicant to determine his qualifications; and shall designate or establish an agent or board for the locality to examine and determine a person's qualifications for certification. A certificate shall not be granted to an applicant found not to be qualified.</p><p>C. In accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.), the Safety and Health Codes Board shall establish standards to be used in determining an applicant's ability, proficiency and qualifications.</p><p>D. No person certified pursuant to this section or certified or licensed pursuant to Chapter 3.1 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/40.1-51.5/'>40.1-51.5</a> et seq.) of Title 40.1 shall be required to obtain any other such certificate or to pay a fee, other than the initial certification fee, in any locality in which he practices his trade.</p><p>E. Any such ordinance adopted by a locality may provide for penalties not exceeding those applicable to Class 3 misdemeanors.</p><p>1989, c. 224, ยง 15.1-11.6; 1997, c. 587.</p>