# ยง 64.2-2611 When disclaimer barred or limited.

<p>A. A disclaimer is barred by a written waiver of the right to disclaim.</p><p>B. A disclaimer of an interest in property is barred if any of the following events occur before the disclaimer becomes effective: (i) the disclaimant accepts the interest sought to be disclaimed; (ii) the disclaimant voluntarily assigns, conveys, encumbers, pledges, or transfers the interest sought to be disclaimed or contracts to do so; or (iii) a judicial sale of the interest sought to be disclaimed occurs.</p><p>C. A disclaimer, in whole or in part, of the future exercise of a power held in a fiduciary capacity is not barred by its previous exercise.</p><p>D. A disclaimer, in whole or in part, of the future exercise of a power not held in a fiduciary capacity is not barred by its previous exercise unless the power is exercisable in favor of the disclaimant.</p><p>E. A disclaimer is barred or limited if so provided by law other than this chapter.</p><p>F. A disclaimer of a power over property that is barred by this section is ineffective. A disclaimer of an interest in property that is barred by this section takes effect as a transfer of the interest disclaimed to the persons who would have taken the interest under this chapter had the disclaimer not been barred.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0253'>253</a>, ยง 64.1-196.12; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614'>614</a>.</p>