# ยง 58.1-1401 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly shows otherwise, the term or phrase:</p><p>"Dealer" means any watercraft dealer as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-801/'>29.1-801</a>.</p><p>"Gross receipts" means the amount received for the lease, charter, or other use of any watercraft. The term shall include hourly rental, maintenance, and all other charges for use of any watercraft and charges for pilots crew, or other services, unless separately stated on the invoice. The term shall also include the amount by which the price estimated under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1403/'>58.1-1403</a> exceeds the charge actually made.</p><p>"Sale" means any transfer of ownership or possession of a watercraft by exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any manner. The term shall also include (i) a transaction whereby possession is transferred but title is retained by the seller as security, (ii) any lease or rental for a period of time substantially equal to the remaining life of the watercraft, and (iii) any lease or rental requiring total payments by the lessee during the lease or rental period which substantially equals the value of the watercraft. The term shall not include a transfer of ownership or possession made to secure the payment of an obligation.</p><p>"Sale price" means the total price paid for a watercraft and all attachments thereon and accessories thereto, exclusive of any federal manufacturer's excise tax, without any allowance or deduction for trade-ins or unpaid liens or encumbrances.</p><p>"Watercraft" means any vessel propelled by machinery whether or not the machinery is the principal source of propulsion. The term shall also include any sail-powered vessel which is in excess of eighteen feet in length measured along the centerline. The term shall not include a seaplane on the water or a watercraft which has a valid marine titling document issued by the United States Coast Guard.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-685.40; 1981, c. 405; 1984, cc. 418, 675; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0877'>877</a>.</p>