# § 37.2-310 Powers and duties of Department related to substance abuse.

<p>The Department shall have the following powers and duties related to substance abuse:</p><p>1. To act as the sole state agency for the planning, coordination, and evaluation of the comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services.</p><p>2. To provide staff assistance to the Substance Abuse Services Council pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2696/'>2.2-2696</a>.</p><p>3. To (i) develop, implement, and promote, in cooperation with federal, state, local, and other publicly-funded agencies, a comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services, consistent with federal guidelines and regulations, for the long-range development of adequate and coordinated programs, services, and facilities for the research, prevention, and control of substance abuse and the treatment and rehabilitation of persons with substance abuse; (ii) review the plan annually; and (iii) make revisions in the plan that are necessary or desirable.</p><p>4. To develop, in cooperation with the Department of Corrections, Virginia Parole Board, Department of Juvenile Justice, Department of Criminal Justice Services, Commission on the Virginia Alcohol Safety Action Program, Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia, Department of Education, Department of Health, Department of Social Services, and other appropriate agencies, a section of the comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services that addresses the need for treatment programs for persons with substance abuse who are involved with these agencies.</p><p>5. To specify uniform methods for keeping statistical information for inclusion in the comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services.</p><p>6. To provide technical assistance and consultation services to state and local agencies in planning, developing, and implementing services for persons with substance abuse.</p><p>7. To review and comment on all applications for state or federal funds or services to be used in substance abuse programs in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/37.2-311/'>37.2-311</a> and on all requests by state agencies for appropriations from the General Assembly for use in substance abuse programs.</p><p>8. To recommend to the Governor and the General Assembly legislation necessary to implement programs, services, and facilities for the prevention and control of substance abuse and the treatment and rehabilitation of persons with substance abuse.</p><p>9. To organize and foster training programs for all persons engaged in the treatment of substance abuse.</p><p>10. To identify, coordinate, mobilize, and use the research and public service resources of institutions of higher education, all levels of government, business, industry, and the community at large in the understanding and solution of problems relating to substance abuse.</p><p>11. To inspect substance abuse treatment programs at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner.</p><p>12. To maintain a current list of substance abuse treatment programs, which shall be made available upon request.</p><p>1976, cc. 739, 767, §§ 37.1-205, 37.1-205.1, 37.1-219; 1977, c. 18; 1980, c. 582; 1988, c. 212, § 37.1-205.1; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0724'>724</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0686'>686</a>.</p>