# ยง 10.1-1422.03 Membership, meetings, and staffing.

<p>A. The Advisory Board shall consist of five persons appointed by the Governor. Three members shall represent persons paying the taxes which are deposited into the Fund and shall include one member appointed from nominations submitted by recognized industry associations representing retailers; one member appointed from nominations submitted by recognized industry associations representing soft drink distributors; and one member appointed from nominations submitted by recognized industry associations representing beer distributors. One member shall be a local litter or recycling coordinator. One member shall be from the general public.</p><p>B. The initial terms of the members of the Advisory Board shall expire July 1, 1999, and five members shall be appointed or reappointed effective July 1, 1999, for terms as follows: one member shall be appointed for a term of one year; one member shall be appointed for a term of two years; one member shall be appointed for a term of three years; and two members shall be appointed for terms of four years unless found to violate subsection E of this section. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of four years except for appointments to fill vacancies, which shall be for the unexpired term. They shall not receive a per diem, compensation for their service, or travel expenses.</p><p>C. The Advisory Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman annually from among its members. The Advisory Board shall meet at least twice annually on such dates and at such times as they determine. Three members of the Advisory Board shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>D. Staff support and actual associated administrative expenses of the Advisory Board shall be provided by the Department from funds allocated from the Fund.</p><p>E. Any member who is absent from three consecutive meetings of the Advisory Board, as certified by the Chairman of the Advisory Board to the Secretary of the Commonwealth, shall be dismissed as a member of the Advisory Board. The replacement of any dismissed member shall be appointed pursuant to subsection A of this section and meet the same membership criteria as the member who has been dismissed. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No person shall be eligible to serve on the Advisory Board for more than two terms.</p><p>1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0417'>417</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0086'>86</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0006'>6</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0283'>283</a>.</p>