# ยง 54.1-1111 Prerequisites to obtaining business license; building, etc., permit.

<p>A. Any person applying to the building official or any other authority of a county, city, or town in this Commonwealth, charged with the duty of issuing building or other permits for the construction of any building, highway, sewer, or structure, or any removal, grading or improvement shall furnish prior to the issuance of the permit, either (i) satisfactory proof to such official or authority that he is duly licensed or certified under the terms of this chapter to carry out or superintend the same, or (ii) file a written statement that he is not subject to licensure or certification as a contractor or subcontractor pursuant to this chapter. The applicant shall also furnish satisfactory proof that the taxes or license fees required by any county, city, or town have been paid so as to be qualified to bid upon or contract for the work for which the permit has been applied.</p><p>It shall be unlawful for the building official or other authority to issue or allow the issuance of such permits unless the applicant has furnished his license or certificate number issued pursuant to this chapter or evidence of being exempt from the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>The building official, or other such authority, violating the terms of this section shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.</p><p>B. Any contractor applying for or renewing a business license in any locality in accordance with Chapter 37 (ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-3700/'>58.1-3700</a> et seq.) of Title 58.1 shall furnish prior to the issuance or renewal of such license either (i) satisfactory proof that he is duly licensed or certified under the terms of this chapter or (ii) a written statement, supported by an affidavit, that he is not subject to licensure or certification as a contractor or subcontractor pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>No locality shall issue or renew or allow the issuance or renewal of such license unless the contractor has furnished his license or certificate number issued pursuant to this chapter or evidence of being exempt from the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 54-138; 1970, c. 319; 1980, c. 634; 1988, c. 765; 1990, c. 911; 1991, c. 151; 1992, c. 713; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0771'>771</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0754'>754</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0082'>82</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0755'>755</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0037'>37</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0088'>88</a>.</p>