# § 22.1-167 Issuance of bonds of Authority.

<p>In order to provide funds for the purchase of local school bonds as authorized by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-166/'>22.1-166</a>, to provide funds for the making of loans to local school boards as authorized by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-166.1/'>22.1-166.1</a>, or to provide funds for the making of grants to local school boards as authorized by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-166.2/'>22.1-166.2</a>, the Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to provide by resolution, at one time or from time to time, for the issuance of bonds of the Authority in such amount or amounts as the Board of Commissioners shall determine. Such bonds of the Authority shall be payable solely from funds of the Authority, including, without limitation, all or any combination of the following sources: (i) payments of principal of and interest on local school bonds purchased by the Authority, (ii) the proceeds of the sale of any such local school bonds, (iii) payments of principal of and interest on obligations transferred to the Authority from the Literary Fund, (iv) the proceeds of the sale of any such obligations, (v) any moneys transferred to the Authority from the Literary Fund, (vi) payments of principal of and interest on loans made to local school boards, and (vii) any funds authorized by the General Assembly from the Literary Fund or otherwise appropriated by the General Assembly, as shall be provided by the resolution of the Board of Commissioners authorizing any such bonds. Bonds of the Authority issued under the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the Commonwealth or a pledge of the faith or credit of the Commonwealth, and all bonds of the Authority shall contain on the face thereof a statement to the effect that neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision thereof is or shall be pledged to the payment of the principal of or the interest on such bonds.</p><p>The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest and shall mature at such time or times, not exceeding thirty years from their date or dates, as may be determined by the Board of Commissioners and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Board of Commissioners, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board of Commissioners prior to the issuance of the bonds. The principal and interest of such bonds may be made payable in any lawful medium. The Board of Commissioners shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and the manner of execution of the bonds and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at the office of the State Treasurer or at any bank or trust company within or without the Commonwealth. If any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature appears on any bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature or such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. All bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have and are hereby declared to have, as between successive holders, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the Commonwealth. The bonds may be issued in coupon or in registered form or both, as the Board of Commissioners may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bonds as to principal alone and as to both principal and interest and for the reconversion of any bonds registered as to both principal and interest into coupon bonds. The Board of Commissioners may sell such bonds in such manner, either at public or at private sale, and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the Authority. The proceeds of such bonds shall be disbursed for the purposes for which such bonds were issued under such restrictions, if any, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or the trust indenture provided for in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-171/'>22.1-171</a> may provide. Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Board of Commissioners may under like restrictions issue temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds shall have been executed and are available for delivery. The Board of Commissioners may also provide for the replacement of any bond which shall become mutilated or shall be destroyed or lost. Such bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than the proceedings, conditions, and things which are specified and required by this chapter.</p><p>Code 1950, § 22-29.7; 1962, c. 194; 1972, c. 745; 1980, c. 559; 1990, c. 909.</p>