# § 3.2-2306 Management of referenda; Commissioner's duties; notice.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall arrange for and manage any referendum conducted under this chapter.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall, 60 days before the date upon which a referendum is to be held, mail notice to the clerk of the circuit court in each locality where soybeans are produced. The clerk of the court shall post the notice on the front door or public bulletin board of the courthouse and certify the posting to the Commissioner. The Board shall publish notice of the referendum in each newspaper of general circulation in the counties where the referendum is to be held at least 60 days before the holding of any referendum under this chapter. The notice shall contain the date, hours, and polling places or other ways for voting in such referendum, the amount of the assessment to be collected, the sources thereof, the means by which the sum shall be collected, and the general purposes for how the funds will be used.</p><p>C. The Commissioner shall prepare and distribute in advance of the referendum all necessary ballots, certificates, and supplies required for the referendum and shall, under regulations adopted by the Board, arrange for the use of polling places, if necessary.</p><p>D. The Commissioner shall, within 10 days after the referendum, canvass and publicly declare the results thereof and certify the same to the Governor and the Board.</p><p>1970, c. 431, §§ 3.1-684.4, 3.1-684.7, 3.1-684.8; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>