# ยง 10.1-2212 Listing of certain historical societies receiving appropriations.

<p>A. At the direction of the Director, the Comptroller of the Commonwealth is instructed and empowered to draw annual warrants upon the State Treasurer, as provided in the general appropriations act, in favor of the treasurers of certain historical societies, museums, foundations, and associations for use in caring for and maintaining collections, exhibits, sites, and facilities owned by such historical organizations, specified as follows:</p><p>1. Virginia Historical Society. For aid in maintaining Battle Abbey at Richmond.</p><p>2. Confederate Museum at Richmond. For the care of Confederate collections and maintenance of the Virginia Room.</p><p>3. Valentine Museum at Richmond. For providing exhibits to the public schools of Virginia.</p><p>4. Woodrow Wilson Birthplace Foundation, Incorporated. To aid in restoring and maintaining the Woodrow Wilson home at Staunton.</p><p>5. Robert E. Lee Memorial Association, Incorporated. To aid in further development of "Stratford" in Westmoreland County.</p><p>6. Poe Foundation, Incorporated. To aid in maintaining the Poe Shrine at Richmond.</p><p>7. Patrick Henry Memorial Foundation at Brookneal. To aid in maintaining home.</p><p>8. Hanover County Branch, Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities. To aid in maintaining the Patrick Henry home at "Scotchtown" in Hanover County.</p><p>9. Historic Lexington Foundation. To aid in restoration and maintenance of the Stonewall Jackson home at Lexington.</p><p>10. "Oatlands," Incorporated. To aid in maintaining "Oatlands" in Loudoun County.</p><p>11. Montgomery County Branch, Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities. To aid in maintaining Smithfield Plantation House.</p><p>12. The Last Capitol of the Confederacy. For the preservation of the Last Capitol of the Confederacy in Danville.</p><p>13. Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities. For assistance in maintaining certain historic landmarks throughout the Commonwealth.</p><p>14. The Corporation for Jefferson's "Poplar Forest." To aid in restoring, maintaining, and operating "Poplar Forest," Thomas Jefferson's Bedford County home.</p><p>15. Belle Grove, Incorporated. To aid in providing educational programs for Virginia students.</p><p>16. George Washington's Fredericksburg Foundation. To aid in the restoration and perpetuation of "Ferry Farm," George Washington's boyhood home.</p><p>17. Montpelier National Trust for Historic Preservation. To aid in restoring, maintaining, and operating Montpelier, the lifelong home of President James Madison, in Orange County.</p><p>18. Eastern Shore of Virginia Historical Society. To aid in restoring, maintaining and operating Kerr Place in Accomack County.</p><p>19. New Town Improvement and Civic Club, Inc. To aid in restoring, maintaining and operating Little England Chapel, a landmark to Hampton's first generation of freedmen, in the City of Hampton.</p><p>20. Woodlawn Plantation. To aid in the preservation and maintenance of Woodlawn Plantation.</p><p>21. Friends of Historic Huntley. To support the research and preservation of Historic Huntley Mansion.</p><p>22. Menokin Foundation, Incorporated. To aid in further development of Menokin, home of Francis Lightfoot Lee.</p><p>23. Historic Gordonsville, Inc., the owner of the Gordonsville Exchange Hotel. To aid in maintaining the Gordonsville Exchange Hotel and in providing educational programs for Virginia's students.</p><p>B. Organizations receiving state funds as provided for in this section shall certify to the satisfaction of the Department that matching funds from local or private sources are available in an amount at least equal to the amount of the request in cash or in kind contributions which are deemed acceptable to the Department.</p><p>C. Requests for funding of historical societies or like organizations as set forth in subsection A shall be considered by the Governor and the General Assembly only in even-numbered years.</p><p>1981, c. 537, ยง 10-145.12; 1984, cc. 2, 528, 563, 750; 1987, c. 481; 1988, c. 891, ยง 10.1-813; 1989, cc. 656, 711; 1990, c. 817; 1993, c. 264; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0162'>162</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0495'>495</a>; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0227'>227</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0420'>420</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0172'>172</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0007'>7</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0018'>18</a>.</p>