# ยง 60.2-609 Reciprocal arrangements with agencies of other states or federal government.

<p>A. 1. The Commission shall participate in any arrangements for the payment of compensation on the basis of combining an individual's wages and employment covered under the unemployment compensation laws of two or more states. Such arrangements shall be approved by the United States Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the state unemployment compensation agencies, to assure the prompt and full payment of compensation in such situations. Such arrangements include provisions for:</p><p>a. Applying the base period of a single state law to a claim involving the combining of an individual's wages and employment covered under two or more state unemployment compensation laws, and</p><p>b. Avoiding the duplicate use of wages and employment by reason of such combining.</p><p>2. The Commission shall periodically reimburse any other state agency, up to the amount of benefit credits thus transferred to it by the Commission for payments actually made by such other state agency based on such transfers.</p><p>3. Similarly, such other state agency shall periodically reimburse the Commission, for payments it actually made based on the benefit credits transferred to it by such other state agency.</p><p>B. Amounts paid under such reciprocal arrangement by another state agency on behalf of the Commission shall, when reimbursed by the Commission, be chargeable to the same accounts and in the same amounts as if such benefits had been paid without regard to such reciprocal arrangement.</p><p>C. Amounts paid under any such reciprocal arrangement by the Commission on behalf of another state agency shall be chargeable to the Commission's benefit account fund and the corresponding reimbursements shall be credited to the same account.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 60-47.1; 1968, c. 738, ยง 60.1-59; 1970, c. 104; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 235; 1979, c. 675; 1986, c. 480.</p>