# ยง 33.2-3703 Composition of Authority.

<p>The Authority shall consist of 18 members as follows:</p><p>1. The chief elected officer, or his designee, of the governing body of each of the counties embraced by the Authority;</p><p>2. The chief elected officer, or his designee, of the City of Richmond and the Town of Ashland;</p><p>3. One member of the House of Delegates who resides in a county or city embraced by the Authority, appointed by the Speaker of the House, and one member of the Senate who resides in a county or city embraced by the Authority, appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules;</p><p>4. A member of the Commonwealth Transportation Board who resides in a locality embraced by the Authority and is appointed by the Governor; and</p><p>5. The following six persons serving ex officio as nonvoting members of the Authority: the Director of the Department of Rail and Public Transportation, or his designee; the Commissioner of Highways, or his designee; the Executive Director of the Virginia Port Authority, or his designee; the Chief Executive Officer of the Greater Richmond Transit Company (GRTC); the Chief Executive Officer of the Richmond Metropolitan Transportation Authority; and the Chief Executive Officer of the Capital Region Airport Commission.</p><p>All members of the Authority shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. If a member of the Authority who represents a locality as provided in subdivision 1 or 2 is unable to attend a meeting of the Authority, he may designate another current elected official of such governing body to attend such meeting of the Authority. Such designation shall be for the purposes of one meeting and shall be submitted in writing or electronically to the Chairman of the Authority at least 48 hours prior to the affected meeting.</p><p>The Authority shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its voting membership.</p><p>The Auditor of Public Accounts, or his legally authorized representatives, shall annually audit the financial accounts of the Authority, and the cost of such audit shall be borne by the Authority.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1235'>1235</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?211+ful+CHAP0142'>142</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0189'>189</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0190'>190</a>.</p>