# § 23.1-2309 Operations of Medical Center.

<p>A. The University may provide medical and health sciences education and related research through teaching hospitals and related health care and health maintenance facilities, collectively referred to in this section as the Medical Center. The Medical Center may participate in cooperative arrangements reflective of changes in health care delivery.</p><p>B. The University may create, own in whole or in part, or otherwise control corporations, partnerships, insurers, or other entities whose activities promote the operations of the Medical Center and its mission; cooperate or enter into joint ventures with such entities; and enter into contracts in connection with such joint ventures. Without limiting the power of the University to issue bonds, notes, guarantees, or other evidence of indebtedness pursuant to subsection C in connection with such activities, no such creation, ownership, or control shall create any responsibility of the University, the Commonwealth, or any agency of the Commonwealth for the operations or obligations of any entity or in any way make the University, the Commonwealth, or any agency of the Commonwealth responsible for the payment of debt or other obligations of such entity. All such interests shall be reflected on the financial statements of the Medical Center.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 11 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1100/'>23.1-1100</a> et seq.), the University may issue bonds, notes, guarantees, or other evidence of indebtedness without the approval of any other governmental body subject to the following provisions:</p><p>1. Such debt is used solely for the purpose of paying not more than 50 percent of the cost of capital improvements in connection with the operation of the Medical Center or related issuance costs, reserve funds, and other financing expenses, including interest during construction or acquisition and for up to one year thereafter.</p><p>2. No revenues of the University are pledged to the payment of such debt except those revenues derived from the operation of the Medical Center and related health care and educational activities, and no general fund appropriation and special Medicaid disproportionate share payments for indigent and medically indigent patients who are not eligible for the Virginia Medicaid Program are pledged to the payment of such debt.</p><p>3. Such debt states that it does not constitute a debt of the Commonwealth or a pledge of the faith and credit of the Commonwealth.</p><p>4. Such debt is not sold to the public.</p><p>5. The total principal amount of such debt outstanding at any one time does not exceed $25 million.</p><p>6. The Treasury Board approves the terms and structure of such debt.</p><p>7. The purpose, terms, and structure of such debt are promptly communicated to the Governor and the Chairmen of the House Appropriations and Senate Finance Committees.</p><p>8. All such indebtedness is reflected on the financial statements of the Medical Center.</p><p>D. Subject to meeting the conditions set forth in subsection C, such debt may be in such form and have such terms as the board may provide and shall be in all respects debt of the University for the purposes of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1110/'>23.1-1110</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1115/'>23.1-1115</a>, and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1116/'>23.1-1116</a>.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0621'>621</a>, § 23-50.16; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>