# ยง 52-34.6 Activation of Senior Alert Program upon an incident of a missing senior adult.

<p>A. Upon receipt of a notice of a missing senior adult from a law-enforcement agency, the Virginia State Police shall confirm the accuracy of the information and provide assistance in the activation of the Senior Alert Program as the investigation dictates.</p><p>B. Senior Alerts may be local, regional, or statewide. The initial decision to make a local Senior Alert shall be at the discretion of the local law-enforcement official. Prior to making a local Senior Alert, the local law-enforcement official shall confer with the Virginia State Police and provide information regarding the missing senior adult to the Virginia State Police. The decision to make a regional or statewide Senior Alert shall be at the discretion of the Virginia State Police.</p><p>C. The Senior Alert shall include the missing senior adult information as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1718.1/'>15.2-1718.1</a> and any other such information as the law-enforcement agency deems appropriate that will assist in the safe recovery of the missing senior adult.</p><p>D. The Senior Alert shall be cancelled under the terms of the Senior Alert Agreement. Any local law-enforcement agency that locates a missing senior adult who is the subject of an alert shall notify the Virginia State Police immediately that the missing senior adult has been located.</p><p>2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0486'>486</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0723'>723</a>.</p>