# § 38.2-3551 Definitions.

<p>A. As used in this article:</p><p>"Eligible dependent" means an individual who may be covered as a dependent under a group health policy or policies and who is eligible, as determined by a small employer health group cooperative, for coverage as a dependent of an eligible employee under a group health policy or policies issued to or through such small employer health group cooperative.</p><p>"Eligible employee" means an employee who works for a small employer on a full-time basis, has a normal work week of 30 or more hours, has satisfied applicable waiting period requirements, and is not a part-time, temporary, or substitute employee.</p><p>"Employer-member" means a small employer participating in a small employer health group cooperative.</p><p>"Group health policy" or "policy" means a group insurance policy providing hospital, medical and surgical or major medical coverage on an expense-incurred basis, a group accident and sickness insurance policy or subscription contract, and a group health care plan for health care services or limited health care services provided by a health maintenance organization. For the purposes of this article, a group health policy or policy shall also mean a policy or plan provided by a dental or optometric services plan, dental plan organization, and a health maintenance organization offering limited health care services as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4300/'>38.2-4300</a>.</p><p>"Health insurance issuer" or "issuer" means a company authorized to issue coverage under Article 3 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3521.1/'>38.2-3521.1</a> et seq.) of Chapter 35, Chapter 42 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4200/'>38.2-4200</a> et seq.), Chapter 43 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4300/'>38.2-4300</a> et seq.), Chapter 45 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4500/'>38.2-4500</a> et seq.), or Chapter 61 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-6100/'>38.2-6100</a> et seq.) of this title.</p><p>"Health status-related factor" means the following in relation to the individual or a dependent eligible for coverage under a group health plan or health insurance coverage offered by a health insurance issuer:</p><p>1. Health status;</p><p>2. Medical condition, including both physical and mental illnesses;</p><p>3. Claims experience;</p><p>4. Receipt of health care;</p><p>5. Medical history;</p><p>6. Genetic information;</p><p>7. Evidence of insurability, including conditions arising out of acts of domestic violence; or</p><p>8. Disability.</p><p>"Service area" means the geographic area within which a health insurance issuer is authorized to sell a group health policy or policies.</p><p>"Small employer" means, in connection with a group health policy with respect to a calendar year and a plan year, an employer who employed an average of at least one but not more than 50 employees on business days during the preceding calendar year and who employs at least one employee on the first day of the plan year.</p><p>"Small employer health group cooperative" or "cooperative" means an entity authorized by its employer-members to negotiate with health insurance issuers on their behalf as to the terms, including premium rates, under which a group health policy or policies may be issued, providing coverage for the eligible employees of such employer-members and their eligible dependents.</p><p>B. The provisions of this section shall not apply in any instance in which the provisions of this section are inconsistent or in conflict with a provision of Article 6 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3438/'>38.2-3438</a> et seq.) of Chapter 34.</p><p>2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0427'>427</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0751'>751</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>.</p>