# ยง 30-351 Powers and duties; report.

<p>The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. To develop and coordinate outreach programs in collaboration with schools to educate students on the importance of understanding that (i) a constitutional republic is a form of government dependent on reasoned debate and good faith negotiation; (ii) individual involvement is a critical factor in community success; and (iii) consideration of and respect for others is essential to deliberating, negotiating, and advocating positions on public concerns.</p><p>2. To identify civic education projects in the Commonwealth and provide technical assistance as may be needed to such programs.</p><p>3. To build a network of civic education professionals to share information and strengthen partnerships.</p><p>4. To develop, in consultation with entities represented on the Commission and others as determined by the Commission, a clearinghouse that shall be accessible on the Department of Education's website. The electronic clearinghouse shall include, among other things, (i) a database of civic education resources, lesson plans, and other programs of best practices in civic education; (ii) a bulletin board to promote discussion and exchange of ideas relative to civic education; (iii) an events calendar; and (iv) links to civic education research.</p><p>5. To make recommendations to the Board of Education regarding revisions to the Standards of Learning for civics and government.</p><p>6. To seek, receive, and expend gifts, grants, donations, bequests, or other funds from any source to support the work of the Commission and facilitate the objectives of this chapter.</p><p>7. To submit to the Governor and the General Assembly an annual report. The chairman shall submit to the Governor and the General Assembly an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Commission no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0562'>562</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0145'>145</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0327'>327</a>.</p>