# ยง 4.1-623 Employees of the Authority.

<p>Employees of the Authority shall be considered employees of the Commonwealth. Employees of the Authority shall be eligible for membership in the Virginia Retirement System or other retirement plan as authorized by Article 4 (ยง <a href='/vacode/51.1-125/'>51.1-125</a> et seq.) of Chapter 1 of Title 51.1 and participation in all health and related insurance and other benefits, including premium conversion and flexible benefits, available to state employees as provided by law. Employees of the Authority shall be employed on such terms and conditions as established by the Board. The Board shall develop and adopt policies and procedures that afford its employees grievance rights, ensure that employment decisions shall be based upon the merit and fitness of applicants, and prohibit discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board shall develop, implement, and administer a paid leave program, which may include annual, personal, and sick leave or any combination thereof. All other leave benefits shall be administered in accordance with Chapter 11 (ยง <a href='/vacode/51.1-1100/'>51.1-1100</a> et seq.) of Title 51.1, except as otherwise provided in this section.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>.</p>