# ยง 54.1-414 Issuance of certification; waiver of examination.

<p>The Board shall issue a certification to practice as a certified interior designer in the Commonwealth to every applicant who shall have complied with the requirements of this chapter and the regulations of the Board. The certificates shall be signed by at least three members of the Board.</p><p>The Board shall certify any person who is a graduate of a minimum four-year professional degree program accredited by the Foundation for Interior Design Education Research, an equivalent accrediting organization or a professional program approved by the Board and who has two years of monitored experience in the performance of interior design services and who has taken and passed the examination for certification as a certified interior designer.</p><p>The Board, in its discretion, shall determine whether an applicant's professional education and professional experience in the field of interior design are sufficient to establish eligibility for the examination.</p><p>The Board, in lieu of all examinations, may accept satisfactory evidence of licensing or certification in another state or country or the District of Columbia where (i) the qualifications for such licensure or certification are equal, in the opinion of the Board, to the qualifications required by the provisions of this chapter as of the date of application and (ii) the applicant is the holder of a license or certificate in good standing. Upon receipt of such satisfactory evidence and provided all other such requirements of this chapter are complied with, a certificate shall be issued to such applicant.</p><p>1990, c. 512; 1991, c. 291; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0625'>625</a>; 2000, c. 42.</p>