# ยง 45.2-1117  Examination fees; Mineral Mining Examiners' Fund.

<p>A. A fee of $10 shall be paid to the Director by each person examined before the commencement of the examination.</p><p>B. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Mineral Mining Examiners' Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All fees collected pursuant to subsection A, together with moneys collected pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-1119/'>45.2-1119</a>, shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund.</p><p>C. The Fund shall be administered by the Director, and moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of payment of the cost of printing certificates and other necessary forms and the incidental expenses incurred by the Department in conducting examinations, reviewing examination papers, and conducting its other duties pursuant to this article. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director. The Director shall keep accounts and records concerning the receipts and expenditures of the Fund as required by the Auditor of Public Accounts.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390'>390</a>, ยง 45.1-161.292:22; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>