# ยง 38.2-2113 Mailing or electronic delivery of notice of cancellation or refusal to renew.

<p>A. No written notice of cancellation of or refusal to renew a policy written to insure owner-occupied dwellings shall be effective when mailed or delivered electronically by an insurer unless the insurer complies with the applicable provisions of subdivisions 1, 2, and 3:</p><p>1. If the notice is mailed, proof of mailing a notice of cancellation or refusal to renew shall be obtained using one of the following methods that demonstrates the date that the notice was sent to the named insured at the address stated in the policy or to the named insured's last known address:</p><p>a. The notice is sent by:</p><p>(1) Registered mail;</p><p>(2) Certified mail; or</p><p>(3) Any other similar first-class mail tracking method used or approved by the United States Postal Service, including Intelligent Mail barcode Tracing (IMb Tracing); or</p><p>b. The notice is sent by another method of mailing for which a certificate of mailing is obtained from the United States Postal Service at the time the notice is accepted for mailing. A certificate of mailing from the United States Postal Service does not include a certificate of bulk mailing.</p><p>2. If the notice is delivered electronically, the insurer retains evidence of electronic transmittal or receipt of the notification for at least one year from the date of the transmittal.</p><p>3. If the notice is mailed, the insurer retains a copy of the notice of cancellation or refusal to renew for at least one year from the date such action was effective. If the notice is mailed, proof of mailing from the United States Postal Service consistent with the mailing method utilized by the insurer shall be maintained for one year from the date the cancellation or nonrenewal notice is effective.</p><p>B. This section shall not apply to policies written through the Virginia Property Insurance Association or any other residual market facility established pursuant to Chapter 27 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2700/'>38.2-2700</a> et seq.) of this title.</p><p>C. 1. If the terms of the policy require the notice of cancellation or refusal to renew to be given to any lienholder, then the insurer shall mail such notice and retain a copy of the notice in the manner required by subsection A. If the notices sent to the insured and the lienholder are part of the same form, the insurer may retain a single copy of the notice. Proof of mailing from the United States Postal Service consistent with the mailing method utilized by the insurer shall be maintained for one year from the date the cancellation or nonrenewal notice is effective.</p><p>2. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision 1, if the terms of the policy require the notice of cancellation or refusal to renew to be given to any lienholder, the insurer and lienholder may agree by separate agreement that such notices may be transmitted electronically, provided that the insurer and lienholder agree upon the specifics for transmittal and acknowledgment of notification. Evidence of transmittal or receipt of the notification required by this subsection shall be retained by the insurer for at least one year from the date of termination.</p><p>D. "Copy," as used in this section, includes photographs, microphotographs, photostats, microfilm, microcard, printouts, or other reproductions of electronically stored data or copies from optical disks, electronically transmitted facsimiles, or any other reproduction of an original from a process that forms a durable medium for its recording, storing, and reproducing.</p><p>1972, c. 110, ยง 38.1-371.1; 1983, c. 371; 1986, c. 562; 1992, c. 160; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0529'>529</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0215'>215</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0257'>257</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0009'>9</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0443'>443</a>; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0004'>4</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0071'>71</a>.</p>