# ยง 58.1-612.2 (Effective until October 1, 2022) Tax collectible from accommodations providers and intermediaries.

<p>A. For any retail sale of accommodations not facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations provider shall collect the retail sales and use taxes imposed in accordance with this chapter, computed on the total charges for the accommodations, and shall remit the same to the Department and shall be liable for the same.</p><p>B. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations intermediary shall be deemed under this chapter as a dealer making a retail sale of an accommodation. The accommodations intermediary shall collect the retail sales and use taxes imposed in accordance with this chapter, computed on the room charge. When the accommodations are at a hotel, the accommodations intermediary shall remit the taxes on the accommodations fee to the Department and shall remit any remaining taxes to the hotel, which shall remit such taxes to the Department. When the accommodations are at a short-term rental, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-983/'>15.2-983</a>, or at any other accommodations, the accommodations intermediary shall remit the taxes on the room charge to the Department.</p><p>C. An accommodations intermediary shall not be liable for retail sales and use taxes remitted to an accommodations provider but that are not then remitted to the Department by the accommodations provider. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, an accommodations provider shall be liable for that portion of retail sales and use taxes that relates to the discount room charge only to the extent that the accommodations intermediary has remitted such taxes to the accommodations provider.</p><p>D. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, nothing herein shall relieve the accommodations provider from liability for retail sales and use taxes on any amounts charged directly to the customer by the accommodations provider that are not collected by the accommodations intermediary.</p><p>E. For any retail sale of accommodations not facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations provider shall separately state the amount of the tax on the bill, invoice, or similar documentation and shall add the tax to the total charges charged to the transient by the accommodations provider. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations intermediary shall separately state the amount of the tax on the bill, invoice, or similar documentation and shall add the tax to the room charge; thereafter, such tax shall be a debt from the customer to the accommodations intermediary, recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0383'>383</a>.</p>