# ยง 28.2-644 Declaring certain areas near Hole in the Wall, in Mathews County, public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals.

<p>The following ground near Hole in the Wall, Mathews County, contained within the following boundaries is declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use:</p><p>1. Beginning at Virginia Marine Resources Commission's survey Station Marsh, located in the marsh on the south side of Hole in the Wall; thence in a northeasterly direction to corner No. 3 of Carroll Lee Forrest and Vernon Rowe, Junior's, oyster lease of 13.02 acres; thence in a northwesterly direction along said lease to corner No. 2; thence along the east side of R. Herbert Callis' lease of 6.69 acres to corner No. 3 of said lease; thence along the north side of said lease in a westerly direction to corner No. 2, said corner No. 2 in on line of Public Ground No. 7, Mathews County; thence in a northerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 11; thence in a northwesterly direction along Public Ground line to a point opposite corners Nos. 8 and 9 of Maywood L. Callis' 24.69 acres; thence in a northeasterly direction to corner No. 9 of said lease; thence to corner No. 10 of said lease; thence in a northeasterly direction to Virginia Marine Resources Commission's survey Station Sand; thence in a due east course to the intersection of Public Ground No. 6, Mathews County; thence following along west side of said Public Ground in a southeasterly direction to a point due east of Station Marsh; thence due west to Station Marsh, or point of beginning.</p><p>2. Beginning at the northeast corner of Haufler's survey No. 6565; thence in an easterly direction along the line of Milford Haven to a point which is on Public Ground No. 7; thence in a southerly direction along the boundary line of Public Ground No. 7 to a point; thence due west to a point which is the southeastern corner of Callis Ground No. 7222; thence in a northerly direction along Callis Ground No. 7222 and Callis Ground No. 10447 to a point where the eastern boundary of Callis Ground No. 10447 intersects the eastern boundary of Haufler's Ground No. 6565; thence in a northerly direction to the point of beginning.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-204.2; 1954, c. 111; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-154; 1981, c. 128; 1992, c. 836.</p>