# § 54.1-3705 Specific powers and duties of the Board.

<p>In addition to the powers granted in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2400/'>54.1-2400</a>, the Board shall have the following specific powers and duties:</p><p>1. To cooperate with and maintain a close liaison with other professional boards and the community to ensure that regulatory systems stay abreast of community and professional needs.</p><p>2. To conduct inspections to ensure that licensees conduct their practices in a competent manner and in conformance with the relevant regulations.</p><p>3. To designate specialties within the profession.</p><p>4. Expired.</p><p>5. To license baccalaureate social workers, master's social workers, and clinical social workers to practice consistent with the requirements of the chapter and regulations of the Board.</p><p>6. To register persons proposing to obtain supervised post-degree experience in the practice of social work required by the Board for licensure as a clinical social worker.</p><p>7. To pursue the establishment of reciprocal agreements with jurisdictions that are contiguous with the Commonwealth for the licensure of baccalaureate social workers, master's social workers, and clinical social workers. Reciprocal agreements shall require that a person hold a comparable, current, unrestricted license in the other jurisdiction and that no grounds exist for denial based on the Code of Virginia and regulations of the Board.</p><p>1976, c. 608, §§ 54-929, 54-931; 1983, c. 115; 1986, cc. 64, 100, 464; 1988, c. 765; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0778'>778</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0451'>451</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0617'>617</a>.</p>