# ยง 6.2-1339 Duties and powers of Commission; judicial review.

<p>A. The Commission shall promptly forward to the corporation copies of all examination reports of member credit unions. The cost of furnishing the copies shall be paid by the corporation.</p><p>B. If the Commission determines, pursuant to the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1311/'>6.2-1311</a> or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1313/'>6.2-1313</a>, that it should take possession of the business and property of a member credit union, the Commission may direct the corporation to assume control of such business and property and, subject to the Commission's orders operate the credit union until such time as the Commission permits the credit union to resume business or until its assets are finally liquidated. If the Commission orders the liquidation of an insolvent member credit union then in the control of the corporation through the purchase of the assets and the assumption of the liabilities of such credit union by another insured credit union, the corporation shall be empowered to convey all right, title, and interest in all or part of the assets and liabilities of the insolvent credit union to the other insured credit union. Upon such transfer, good title to the assets and liabilities conveyed shall vest in the other insured credit union. Any cost or expense incurred by the corporation in such operation of the credit union may be reimbursed from the assets of the credit union by an order of the Commission.</p><p>C. The Commission may suspend or revoke, after notice of hearing, the certificate of authority to do business of any member credit union that fails to pay, when due, any assessment made by the corporation pursuant to this article.</p><p>D. Any final action or order of the Commission under this article shall be subject to judicial review in accordance with the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-39/'>12.1-39</a>.</p><p>1974, c. 587, ยง 6.1-226.9; 1985, c. 366; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>