# ยง 3.2-3201 Milk Commission; composition and appointment of members.

<p>The Milk Commission is continued within the Department and shall report directly to the Commissioner. The Commission shall consist of an Administrator and seven members, all of whom shall be residents of the Commonwealth, appointed by the Governor, two of whom shall be producers, and five including the Administrator shall be consumers but none of such five latter members shall have any connection financially or otherwise with the production or distribution of milk or products derived therefrom. The remaining member of the Commission shall be a milk processor-distributor. The Administrator shall serve in an ex officio capacity without a vote. Any vacancies occurring shall be filled by appointment by the Governor. One member of the Commission shall act as chairman, who shall be elected annually by the membership of the Commission. No member shall serve as chairman and as Administrator and no chairman shall serve successive terms as chairman.</p><p>The Administrator shall devote full time to the duties of his office, which shall be located in the principal office of the Commission. The technical and other services for such Commission shall be performed, so far as practicable, by the Department, the Virginia Cooperative Extension Service, and the Virginia Agricultural Research and Experiment Station, without additional compensation. The Administrator may appoint a secretary and any such additional technical and other assistants and employees as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, and prescribe their powers and duties. The Administrator shall supervise such personnel and shall prepare, approve, and submit all requests for appropriations and be responsible for all expenditures pursuant to appropriations.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-347; 1958, c. 110; 1966, cc. 526, 702, ยง 3.1-426; 1974, c. 467; 1984, c. 444; 1985, c. 397; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0057'>57</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>