# ยง 58.1-306 Filing of individual, estate or trust income tax returns with the Department.

<p>Every individual and fiduciary responsible for filing income tax returns may file such returns with the Department of Taxation or the appropriate commissioner of the revenue. Whenever an individual or fiduciary files with the Department an income tax return for a current year, the Department may assess the state income tax against such taxpayer instead of transmitting such return to a commissioner of the revenue for assessment. In every such case the Department, however, shall advise the appropriate commissioner of the revenue of such action. The Department may advise taxpayers through its publications and instructions of their right to file state income tax returns with the Department but shall not by any means whatsoever, either directly or indirectly, in its bulletins, instructions, publications or otherwise, request, promote or solicit, in any local jurisdiction, unless requested by the commissioner of the revenue or assessing officer thereof on or before September 1 of each year, the filing of such state income tax return with the Department. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the Department from including the mailing addresses of the local commissioners of the revenue as well as the Department within the appropriate income tax forms and filing instructions.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-151.065; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 171; 1974, c. 281; 1984, c. 675; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0521'>521</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0544'>544</a>.</p>