# § 38.2-5601 The Virginia Health Savings Account Plan.

<p>A. The Department of Taxation and the Commission shall amend the Virginia Medical Savings Account Plan prepared pursuant to former § <a href='/vacode/38.2-5600/'>38.2-5600</a> in order to address the provisions of the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, P.L. No. 108-173, permitting eligible individuals to establish health savings accounts pursuant to § 223 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which amended Plan shall be designated as the Virginia Health Savings Account Plan. The Department of Taxation and the Commission shall present the Virginia Health Savings Account Plan to the Chairs of the House Committees on Appropriations; Finance; Health, Welfare and Institutions; and Labor and Commerce and the Senate Committees on Finance and Appropriations; Education and Health; and Commerce and Labor by January 1, 2006. Thereafter the Department of Taxation and the Commission shall update the Plan annually and provide copies of such updates to the chairs of such committees.</p><p>B. The Virginia Health Savings Account Plan shall, consistent with federal law authorizing the establishment and use of health savings accounts, identify measures by private and public entities that will increase the utilization and efficacy of health savings accounts by the Commonwealth's residents, employers, and providers of health care coverage. The Plan shall include recommendations for legislation that would increase the attractiveness of health savings accounts, or eliminate barriers to their use, by providing:</p><p>1. Definitions of eligible participants;</p><p>2. Criteria for accounts, including, but not limited to, such matters as trustees, maximum amounts, and the rollover of balances in medical savings accounts to health savings accounts;</p><p>3. Measures that would encourage public and private employers to offer, as part of a cafeteria menu of insurance plans, high-deductible health plans that would qualify for a health savings account pursuant to § 223 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; and</p><p>4. Any other provisions appropriate to maximize the use of health savings accounts within the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The Plan shall include a report by the Commission on the availability of high deductible health plans, as defined in § 223 (c) (2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, in the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. The Plan shall include recommendations by the Department of Taxation for a system of income tax deductions or refundable credits, consistent with federal law and regulation, for (i) employers who voluntarily contribute to their employees' health savings accounts, (ii) health care providers who participate in providing care to health savings account holders at a reduced cost or without compensation, and (iii) eligible individuals, as defined in § 223 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, who qualify under applicable federal or state definitions as members of the working poor.</p><p>1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0650'>650</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0372'>372</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0572'>572</a>.</p>