# ยง 18.2-246.2 Definitions.

<p>"Conduct" or "conducts" includes initiating, concluding, participating in, or assisting in a financial transaction.</p><p>"Financial transaction" means any purchase, sale, trade, loan, pledge, investment, gift, transfer, transmission, transportation, delivery, deposit, withdrawal, payment, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, extension of credit, purchase or sale of monetary instruments, use of a safe-deposit box, or any other acquisition or disposition of monetary instruments by any means including the movement of funds by wire or other electronic means, which is knowingly designed in whole or in part to conceal or disguise the nature, location, source, ownership or control of the property involved in the transaction.</p><p>"Monetary instruments" means (i) coin or currency of the United States or of any other country, travelers' checks, personal checks, bank checks, cashier's checks, credit cards, debit cards, and money orders or (ii) securities or other negotiable instruments, in bearer form or otherwise.</p><p>"Person" includes any individual, partnership, association, corporation or joint venture.</p><p>"Proceeds" means property acquired or derived, directly or indirectly, from, produced through, realized through, or caused by an act or omission and includes property, real or personal, of any kind.</p><p>"Property" means anything of value, and includes any interest therein, including any benefit, privilege, claim or right with respect to anything of value, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible.</p><p>1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0348'>348</a>; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0541'>541</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0549'>549</a>.</p>