# ยง 58.1-334 Tax credit for purchase of conservation tillage equipment.

<p>A. For taxable years beginning before January 1, 2021, any individual shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-320/'>58.1-320</a> of an amount equaling 25 percent of all expenditures made for the purchase and installation of conservation tillage equipment used in agricultural production by the purchaser. As used in this section the term "conservation tillage equipment" means a planter, drill, or other equipment used to reduce soil compaction commonly known as a "no-till" planter, drill, or other equipment used to reduce soil compaction including guidance systems to control traffic patterns that are designed to minimize disturbance of the soil in planting crops, including such planters, drills, or other equipment designed to reduce soil compaction which may be attached to equipment already owned by the taxpayer.</p><p>B. The amount of such credit shall not exceed $4,000 or the total amount of tax imposed by this chapter, whichever is less, in the year of purchase. If the amount of such credit exceeds the taxpayer's tax liability for such tax year, the amount which exceeds the tax liability may be carried over for credit against the income taxes of such individual in the next five taxable years until the total amount of the tax credit has been taken.</p><p>C. For purposes of this section, the amount of any credit attributable to the purchase and installation of conservation tillage equipment by a partnership or electing small business corporation (S corporation) shall be allocated to the individual partners or shareholders in proportion to their ownership or interest in the partnership or S corporation.</p><p>1985, c. 560; 1990, c. 416; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0058'>58</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0272'>272</a>.</p>