# § 10.1-1002 Powers and duties of Cave Board.

<p>A. The Cave Board may perform all tasks necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter, including the following:</p><p>1. Accept any gift, money, security or other source of funding and expend such funds to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.</p><p>2. Serve as an advisory board to any requesting state agency on matters relating to caves and karst.</p><p>3. Conduct and maintain an inventory of publicly owned caves in Virginia.</p><p>4. Provide cave management expertise and service to requesting public agencies and cave owners.</p><p>5. Maintain a current list of all significant caves in Virginia and report any real and present danger to such caves.</p><p>6. Provide cave data for use by state and other governmental agencies.</p><p>7. Publish or assist in publishing articles, pamphlets, brochures or books on caves and cave-related concerns.</p><p>8. Facilitate data gathering and research efforts on caves.</p><p>9. Advise civil defense authorities on the present and future use of Virginia caves in civil defense.</p><p>10. Advise on the need for and desirability of a state cave recreation plan.</p><p>11. Inform the public about the value of cave resources and the importance of preserving them for the citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Cave Board shall have the duty to:</p><p>1. Protect the rare, unique and irreplaceable minerals and archaeological resources found in caves.</p><p>2. Protect and maintain cave life.</p><p>3. Protect the ground water flow which naturally occurs in caves from water pollution.</p><p>4. Protect the integrity of caves that have unique characteristics or are exemplary natural community types.</p><p>5. Make recommendations to interested state agencies concerning any proposed rule, regulation or administrative policy which directly affects the use and conservation of caves in this Commonwealth.</p><p>6. Study any matters of special concern relating to caves and karst.</p><p>1979, c. 252, § 10-150.11; 1979, c. 433, §§ 9-152.1, 9-152.3 to 9-152.5; 1980, c. 745; 1984, cc. 734, 750; 1985, c. 448; 1988, c. 891.</p>