# ยง 32.1-331.01 Health Care Coverage Assessment Fund.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Covered hospital" means any in-state private acute care hospital other than a hospital classified as a public hospital, freestanding psychiatric and rehabilitation hospital, children's hospital, long stay hospital, long-term care hospital, or critical access hospital.</p><p>"Newly eligible adult" means an individual described in 42 U.S.C. ยง 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i)(VIII).</p><p>"State Plan" means the state plan for medical assistance under Title XIX (42 U.S.C. ยง 1396 et seq.) of the Social Security Act.</p><p>B. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Health Care Coverage Assessment Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All revenues collected or received as a result of imposition of a health care coverage assessment on covered hospitals and any other such moneys, public or private, received for the administration of the health care coverage assessment shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys deposited to the Fund shall be used solely for the nonfederal share of the cost of medical assistance for newly eligible adults, the administrative costs of collecting the assessment and implementing and operating the coverage for newly eligible adults. Such moneys shall be appropriated as provided in the general appropriation act. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director of the Department of Medical Assistance Services.</p><p>2018, Sp. Sess. 1, c. <a href='https://budget.lis.virginia.gov/item/2018/2/HB5002/Chapter/4/4-14/'>2</a>.</p>