# ยง 2.2-604.2  Designation of officials; energy manager.

<p>A. The head of each state agency shall designate an existing employee, known as an energy manager, who shall be responsible for implementing improvements to state buildings to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve energy efficiency and climate change resiliency.</p><p>B. The energy manager shall:</p><p>1. Maintain a list of the facilities owned and leased by his agency, including buildings and interior spaces. Such list shall indicate energy usage and any prior energy audit or energy saving performance contract.</p><p>2. Enter energy and water consumption and building-related information into the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager account for any building or facility over 5,000 square feet, beginning with the largest facilities not yet accounted for, as follows:</p><p>a. By January 1, 2021, five percent of agency facilities;</p><p>b. By January 1, 2022, 20 percent of agency facilities;</p><p>c. By January 1, 2023, 45 percent of agency facilities;</p><p>d. By January 1, 2024, 70 percent of agency facilities; and</p><p>e. By January 1, 2025, 100 percent of agency facilities.</p><p>3. By January 1, 2021, or as each utility account is established, whichever is later, coordinate with the Department of Energy to link utility accounts to the state portfolio master account and to provide to the Department of Energy access to such ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager account.</p><p>4. On an ongoing basis, identify priority buildings and spaces for energy audits or energy saving performance contracts. In determining priorities, the energy manager may consider how energy usage may be reduced and the feasibility of installing energy saving or on-site renewable energy systems.</p><p>5. Provide to the Department of Energy the priority building list on an annual basis.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0961'>961</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0532'>532</a>.</p>