# ยง 15.2-5806 Public hearings; notice; reports.

<p>A. At least sixty days prior to selecting a site for a major league or minor league baseball stadium, the Authority shall hold a public hearing within thirty miles of the site proposed to be acquired for the purpose of soliciting public comment.</p><p>B. Except as otherwise provided herein, at least sixty days prior to the public hearing required by this section, the Authority shall notify the local governing body in which the major league or minor league baseball stadium is proposed to be located and advertise the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in that locality. The notice shall include: (i) a description of the site proposed to be acquired, (ii) the intended use of the site, and (iii) the date, time, and location of the public hearing. After receipt of the notice required by this section, the local governing body in which a major league or minor league baseball stadium is proposed to be located may require that this period be extended for up to sixty additional days or for such other time period as agreed upon by the local governing body and the Authority.</p><p>C. At least thirty days before acquiring or entering into a lease involving a major league or minor league baseball stadium and before entering into a construction contract involving a major league or minor league baseball stadium or stadium site, the Authority shall submit a detailed written report and the findings of the Authority that justify the proposed acquisition, lease, or contract to the General Assembly. The report and findings shall include a detailed plan of the method of funding and the economic necessity of the proposed acquisition, lease, or contract.</p><p>D. The time periods in subsections A, B, and C of this section may not run concurrently.</p><p>E. The Commonwealth shall not enter into any purchase agreement, lease agreement, lease-purchase agreement, master lease agreement or any other contractual arrangement that creates a direct or contingent financial obligation of the Commonwealth unless such agreement or arrangement has first been submitted to the State Treasurer sufficiently prior to the execution of such agreement or arrangement to allow the State Treasurer to undertake a review for the purposes of determining (i) whether the agreement or arrangement may constitute tax-supported debt of the Commonwealth and (ii) the potential impact of the agreement or arrangement on the debt capacity and credit ratings of the Commonwealth. If after such review the State Treasurer determines that the agreement or arrangement may constitute tax-supported debt of the Commonwealth, or may have an adverse impact on the debt capacity or the credit ratings of the Commonwealth, the agreement or arrangement and any associated financing shall be submitted to the Treasury Board for review and approval of terms and structures in a manner consistent with ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2416/'>2.2-2416</a>.</p><p>F. The Commonwealth shall not enter into any purchase agreement, lease agreement, lease-purchase agreement, master lease agreement or any other contractual arrangement that creates a direct or contingent financial obligation of the Commonwealth unless such agreement or arrangement has first been reviewed and approved as required by subsection E and subsequently approved in writing by the Governor.</p><p>1992, c. 823, ยง 15.1-227.76; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0613'>613</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0629'>629</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0950'>950</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1038'>1038</a>; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0884'>884</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0106'>106</a>.</p>