# ยง 45.2-1702  Definitions.

<p>As used in this article:</p><p>"Contracting entity" means any public body as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4301/'>2.2-4301</a>.</p><p>"Energy conservation measures" means the use of methods and techniques, the application of knowledge, or the installation of devices, including an alteration or betterment of an existing facility, that reduces energy consumption or operating costs and includes:</p><p>1. Insulation of the facility structure and systems within the facility.</p><p>2. Installation of storm windows and doors, caulking or weatherstripping, multiglazed windows and doors, heat-absorbing or heat-reflective glazed and coated window and door systems, or additional glazing; reductions in glass area; or the completion of other window and door system modifications that reduce energy consumption.</p><p>3. Installation of automatic energy control systems, including related software, or required network communication wiring, computer devices, wiring, and support services, or the design and implementation of major building technology infrastructure with operational improvements.</p><p>4. Modification or replacement of heating, ventilating, or air-conditioning systems.</p><p>5. Replacement or modification of lighting fixtures to increase the energy efficiency of the lighting system. Such replacement or modification shall, at a minimum, conform to the applicable provisions of the Uniform Statewide Building Code (ยง <a href='/vacode/36-97/'>36-97</a> et seq.).</p><p>6. Installation of energy recovery systems.</p><p>7. Installation of cogeneration systems that produce, in addition to electricity, steam or another form of energy, such as heat, for use primarily within a facility or complex of facilities.</p><p>8. Installation of energy conservation measures that provide long-term operating cost reductions and significantly reduce the BTUs consumed.</p><p>9. Installation of building technology infrastructure measures that provide long-term operating cost reductions and reduce related operational costs.</p><p>10. Installation of an energy system, such as solar, biomass, or wind.</p><p>11. Installation of devices that reduce water consumption or sewer charges.</p><p>"Energy cost savings" means a measured reduction in fuel, energy, or operation and maintenance costs created from the implementation of one or more energy conservation measures when compared with an established baseline for previous fuel, energy, or operation and maintenance costs. When calculating "energy cost savings" attributable to the services performed or equipment installed pursuant to a performance-based efficiency contract, maintenance savings shall be included.</p><p>"Energy performance-based contract" means a contract for the evaluation, recommendation, and implementation of energy conservation measures that includes, at a minimum:</p><p>1. The design and installation of equipment to implement one or more such measures and, if applicable, the operation and maintenance of such measures.</p><p>2. The amount of any actual annual savings. Such amount shall meet or exceed the total annual contract payments made by the contracting entity for such contract.</p><p>3. The financing charges to be incurred by the contracting entity for such contract.</p><p>"Maintenance savings" means the operating expenses eliminated and future capital replacement expenditures avoided as a result of new equipment installed or services performed by the performance contractor.</p><p>"Performance guarantee bond" means the performance bond provided by the energy performance contractor for each year of the energy program in an amount equal to, but no greater than, the guaranteed measured and verifiable annual savings set forth in the program.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0219'>219</a>, ยง 11-34.2; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>