# ยง 54.1-2908 Reports of disciplinary action against health professionals; immunity from liability; civil penalty.

<p>A. The president of the Medical Society of Virginia, the Osteopathic Medical Association, the Virginia Chiropractors Association, Inc., and the Virginia Podiatric Medical Association shall report within 30 days to the Board of Medicine any disciplinary action taken by his organization against any member of his organization licensed under this chapter if such disciplinary action is a result of conduct involving intentional or negligent conduct that causes or is likely to cause injury to a patient or patients, professional ethics, professional incompetence, moral turpitude, drug addiction or alcohol abuse.</p><p>B. The president of any association, society, academy or organization shall report within 30 days to the Board of Medicine any disciplinary action taken against any of its members licensed under this chapter if such disciplinary action is a result of conduct involving intentional or negligent conduct that causes or is likely to cause injury to a patient or patients, professional ethics, professional incompetence, moral turpitude, drug addiction or alcohol abuse.</p><p>C. Any report required by this section shall be in writing directed to the Board of Medicine, shall give the name and address of the person who is the subject of the report and shall fully describe the circumstances surrounding the facts required to be reported. The report shall include the names and contact information of individuals with knowledge about the facts required to be reported and the names and contact information of all individuals from whom the association, society, academy, or organization sought information to substantiate the facts required to be reported. All relevant medical records maintained by the reporting entity shall be attached to the report if patient care or the health professional's health status is at issue. The reporting association, society, academy or organization shall also provide notice to the Board that it has submitted any required report to the National Practitioner Data Bank under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง 11101 et seq.</p><p>The reporting association, society, academy or organization shall give the health professional who is the subject of the report an opportunity to review the report. The health professional may submit a separate report if he disagrees with the substance of the report.</p><p>D. No person or entity shall be obligated to report any matter to the Board if the person or entity has actual notice that the matter has already been reported to the Board.</p><p>E. Any person making a report required by this section, providing information pursuant to an investigation or testifying in a judicial or administrative proceeding as a result of such report shall be immune from any civil liability resulting therefrom unless such person acted in bad faith or with malicious intent.</p><p>F. In the event that any organization enumerated in subsection A or any component thereof receives a complaint against one of its members, such organization may, in lieu of considering disciplinary action against such member, request that the Board investigate the matter pursuant to this chapter, in which event any person participating in the decision to make such a request or testifying in a judicial or administrative proceeding as a result of such request shall be immune from any civil liability alleged to have resulted therefrom unless such person acted in bad faith or with malicious intent.</p><p>G. Any person who fails to make a report to the Board as required by this section shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000. Any person assessed a civil penalty pursuant to this section shall not receive a license, registration or certification or renewal of such from any health regulatory board unless such penalty has been paid.</p><p>1977, c. 639, ยง 54-317.4; 1978, c. 541; 1983, c. 40; 1986, c. 434; 1988, c. 765; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0937'>937</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0980'>980</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0688'>688</a>; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0753'>753</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0762'>762</a>.</p>