# § 33.2-1803.2 Transportation Public-Private Partnership Steering Committee.

<p>A. There is hereby established the Transportation Public-Private Partnership Steering Committee (the Committee) to evaluate and review financing options for the development and/or operation of transportation facility or facilities.</p><p>The Committee shall consist of the following members:</p><p>1. Two members of the Commonwealth Transportation Board;</p><p>2. The staff director of the House Committee on Appropriations, or his designee, and the staff director of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, or his designee;</p><p>3. A Deputy Secretary of Transportation who shall serve as the chairman;</p><p>4. The chief financial officer of either the Department of Transportation or the Department of Rail and Public Transportation, as appropriate; and</p><p>5. A nonagency public financial expert, as selected by the Secretary of Transportation.</p><p>B. Prior to the initiation of any procurement pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803/'>33.2-1803</a> by the Department of Transportation, the Virginia Passenger Rail Authority, or the Department of Rail and Public Transportation, the Committee shall meet to review the public sector analysis and competition developed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803.1:1/'>33.2-1803.1:1</a> and concur that:</p><p>1. The assumptions regarding the project scope, benefits, and costs of the public sector option developed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803.1:1/'>33.2-1803.1:1</a> were fully and reasonably developed;</p><p>2. The assumed financing costs and valuation of both financial and construction risk mitigation included in the public sector option are financially sound and reflect the best interest of the public; and</p><p>3. The terms sheet developed for the proposed procurement contains all necessary elements.</p><p>C. After receipt of responses to the request for qualifications, but prior to the issuance of the first draft request for proposals, the Committee shall meet to determine that the development and/or operation of the transportation facility or facilities as a qualifying transportation facility serves the public interest pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803.1/'>33.2-1803.1</a>. If the Committee makes an affirmative determination, as evidenced by an affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Committee, the Department of Transportation or the Department of Rail and Public Transportation may proceed with the procurement pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803/'>33.2-1803</a>.</p><p>D. Meetings of the Committee shall be open to the public, and meetings will be scheduled on an as-needed basis. However, the Committee may convene a closed session pursuant to the provisions of subdivisions A 6 and 29 of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-3711/'>2.2-3711</a> to allow the Committee to review the public sector analysis and competition and to review proposals received pursuant to a request for qualifications.</p><p>E. The Committee shall, within 10 business days of any meeting, report on the findings of such meeting. Such report shall be made to the Chairmen of the House and Senate Committees on Transportation, the House Committee on Appropriations, and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations.</p><p>F. Within 60 days of the execution of a comprehensive agreement pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803/'>33.2-1803</a>, the Department of Transportation or the Department of Rail and Public Transportation, as appropriate, shall, in closed session, brief the Committee on the details of the final bids received and the details of the evaluation of such bids.</p><p>2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0612'>612</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>