# ยง 10.1-1416 Collection and survey of litter.

<p>Collections and surveys of the kinds of litter that are discarded in violation of the laws of the Commonwealth shall be conducted as the need is determined by the Department, after receipt of the recommendations of the Advisory Board, or as directed by the General Assembly. The survey shall include litter found throughout the Commonwealth, including standard metropolitan statistical areas and rural and recreational areas. To the fullest extent possible, in standard metropolitan statistical areas the Department of Transportation shall make use of local litter and trash collection services through arrangements with local governing bodies and appropriate agencies, in the discharge of the duties imposed by this section. The Department of Transportation shall report to the Governor, the General Assembly and the Department as to the amount of litter collected pursuant to this section and shall include in its report an analysis of litter types, their weights and volumes, and, where practicable, the recyclability of the types of products, packages, wrappings and containers which compose the principal amounts of the litter collected. The products whose packages, wrappings and containers constitute the litter shall include, but not be limited to the following categories:</p><p>1. Food for human or pet consumption;</p><p>2. Groceries;</p><p>3. Cigarettes and tobacco products;</p><p>4. Soft drinks and carbonated waters;</p><p>5. Beer and other malt beverages;</p><p>6. Wine;</p><p>7. Newspapers and magazines;</p><p>8. Paper products and household paper;</p><p>9. Glass containers;</p><p>10. Metal containers;</p><p>11. Plastic or fiber containers made of synthetic material;</p><p>12. Cleaning agents and toiletries;</p><p>13. Nondrug drugstore sundry products;</p><p>14. Distilled spirits; and</p><p>15. Motor vehicle parts.</p><p>1987, c. 234, ยง 10-277.3; 1988, c. 891; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0417'>417</a>.</p>