# ยง 54.1-4401 Applicability of chapter.

<p>A. This chapter shall not be construed to prevent any person who is not licensed from:</p><p>1. Using the description "accountant" or "bookkeeper";</p><p>2. Stating that he practices accounting or bookkeeping;</p><p>3. Performing services involving the use of accounting skills;</p><p>4. Rendering tax services, or management advisory or consulting services;</p><p>5. Keeping the books of account and related accounting records; or</p><p>6. Preparing financial statements without providing assurance.</p><p>B. This chapter shall not be construed to prevent any person who is not licensed from stating that he has prepared, compiled, assembled or drafted a financial statement, provided he does not use any additional language that comprises an assurance or make any claims, representations, or statements prohibited by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-4414/'>54.1-4414</a>.</p><p>C. The prohibitions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-4414/'>54.1-4414</a> and the other provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to preclude any person who is not licensed from including a statement on financial statements indicating that no assurance is provided on the financial statements or using the following language: "I (We) have compiled the accompanying (financial statements) of (name of entity) as of (time period) and for the (period) then ended. A compilation is limited to presenting in the form of financial statements information that is the representation of management (owners). I (We) have not audited or reviewed the accompanying financial statements and, accordingly, do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on them. Management has elected to omit substantially all (or certain) required disclosures (and the statement of cash flows). If the omitted disclosures were included in the financial statements, they might influence the user's conclusions about the (entity's) financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Accordingly, these financial statements are not designed for those who are not informed about these matters."</p><p>D. The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed, interpreted, or applied to prohibit any public official or public employee from performing his duly authorized or mandated duties.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0832'>832</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0804'>804</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0287'>287</a>.</p>