# § 30-263 Joint Reapportionment Committee; membership; terms; quorum; compensation and expenses.

<p>A. The Joint Reapportionment Committee (the Joint Committee) is established in the legislative branch of state government. The Joint Committee shall consist of five members of the Committee on Privileges and Elections of the House of Delegates and three members of the Committee on Privileges and Elections of the Senate appointed by the respective chairmen of the two committees. Members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.</p><p>B. The Joint Committee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members of the Joint Committee shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Joint Committee shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>C. The Joint Committee shall supervise activities required for the tabulation of population for the census and for the timely reception of precinct population data for reapportionment.</p><p>D. Members shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a> and shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Office of the Clerk of the House of Delegates and the Office of Clerk of the Senate for their respective members.</p><p>1986, c. 593, § 24.1-40.10; 1992, c. 425; 1993, c. 641, § 24.2-300; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>; 2020, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0056'>56</a>.</p>