# ยง 30-241 Members.

<p>The Commission shall consist of 21 members, seven from Virginia, seven from Maryland and seven from Pennsylvania. In each state, five of the members shall be members of the General Assembly. In Virginia, two Senators appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules and three Delegates appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates shall serve as members. The Governor of Virginia or his designee shall serve as a member. In addition, the Senate Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the House of Delegates shall jointly appoint one Virginia member who is not a legislator or an employee of the executive branch. In Maryland, two senators designated by the President of the Senate and three delegates designated by the Speaker of the House of Delegates shall serve as members. The Governor of Maryland or his designee shall serve as a member. In addition, the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Delegates shall jointly select one Maryland member who is not a legislator or an employee of the executive branch. In Pennsylvania, two senators designated by the President pro tempore of the Senate and three representatives designated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall serve as members. The Governor of Pennsylvania or his designee shall serve as a member. In addition, the President pro tempore of the Senate shall select one Pennsylvania member who is not a legislator or an employee of the executive branch.</p><p>1980, c. 662, ยง 62.1-69.6; 1985, c. 149; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>.</p>