# ยง 13.1-320 Powers.

<p>A. An association shall have the capacity to act possessed by natural persons, but such association shall have authority to perform only such acts as are necessary or proper to accomplish the purposes as set forth in its articles of incorporation and which are not repugnant to law.</p><p>B. Without limiting or enlarging the grant of authority contained in subsection A of this section, it is hereby specifically provided that every such association shall have authority:</p><p>1. To act as agent, broker or attorney-in-fact for its members, and for any subsidiary or affiliated association, and otherwise to assist or join with associations engaged in any one or more of the activities authorized by its articles of incorporation, and to hold title for its members and for subsidiary and affiliated associations to property handled or managed by the association on their behalf.</p><p>2. To make contracts, and to exercise by its board or duly authorized officers or agents, all such incidental powers as may be necessary, suitable or proper for the accomplishment of the purposes of the association and not inconsistent with law or its articles of incorporation and that may be conducive to or expedient for the interest or benefit of the association.</p><p>3. To make loans or advances to members or producer-patrons or to the members of an association which is itself a member or subsidiary thereof; to purchase, or otherwise acquire, endorse, discount or sell any evidence of debt, obligation or security.</p><p>4. To establish and accumulate reserves and surplus to capital, and such other funds as may be authorized by the articles of incorporation or the bylaws.</p><p>5. To own and hold membership in, or shares of the capital stock of, other associations and corporations and the bonds or other obligations thereof, engaged in any related activity, in producing, warehousing or marketing any of the products handled by the association or in financing its activities or of its members, and while the owner thereof, to exercise all the rights of ownership, including the right to vote thereon.</p><p>6. If such associations are warehousing corporations, they may issue legal warehouse receipts to the association, or to any other person, and such legal warehouse receipts shall be considered as adequate collateral to the extent of the current value of the commodity represented thereby. In case such warehouse is licensed or licensed and bonded under the laws of this Commonwealth or the United States, its warehouse receipt shall not be challenged or discriminated against because of ownership or control, wholly or in part, by the associations.</p><p>7. To acquire, hold, sell, dispose of, pledge or mortgage any property which its purposes may require, subject to any limitation prescribed by law or its articles of incorporation.</p><p>8. To borrow money and to give its notes, bonds or other obligations therefor and secure the payment thereof in any manner consistent with law.</p><p>9. To purchase or otherwise handle machinery, equipment, supplies and perform services for nonmembers.</p><p>10. To market or otherwise deal in products of nonmembers to an amount not greater in annual value than such products as are dealt in for or on behalf of its members.</p><p>11. To have a corporate seal and to alter the same at pleasure.</p><p>12. To continue as a corporation for the time limited in its articles of incorporation, or if no time limit is specified, then perpetually.</p><p>13. To sue and to be sued in its corporate name.</p><p>14. To conduct business in this Commonwealth and elsewhere.</p><p>15. To dissolve and wind up.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 13-260; 1956, c. 428; 1964, c. 220; 1989, c. 576.</p>