# ยง 45.2-1701  Division of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency established; powers and duties.

<p>A. The Division of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency is established in the Department. The Director has the immediate authority to coordinate the development and implementation of energy policy in the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Division shall coordinate the energy-related activities of the various state agencies and advise the Governor on energy issues that arise at the local, state, and national levels. All state agencies and institutions shall cooperate fully with the Division to assist in the proper execution of the duties assigned by this section.</p><p>C. In addition, the Division is authorized to make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties or the execution of its powers, including the implementation of energy information and conservation plans and programs.</p><p>D. The Division shall:</p><p>1. Consult with state agencies and institutions concerning energy-related activities or policies as needed for the proper execution of the duties assigned to the Division by this section;</p><p>2. Serve as the Commonwealth's liaison with appropriate agencies of the federal government concerning the activities of the federal government related to energy production, consumption, and transportation and energy resource management in general;</p><p>3. Provide services to encourage efforts by and among businesses in the Commonwealth, industries, utilities, academic institutions, state and local governments, and private institutions to develop energy resources and energy conservation programs;</p><p>4. In consultation with the State Corporation Commission, the Department of Environmental Quality, and the Virginia Center for Coal and Energy Research, prepare the Virginia Energy Plan pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-1710/'>45.2-1710</a>; and</p><p>5. Observe the energy-related activities of state agencies and advise such agencies in order to encourage conformity with established energy policy.</p><p>1984, c. 590, ยง 45.1-390; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0939'>939</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0518'>518</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0532'>532</a>.</p>