# ยง 58.1-2211 Bond or certificate of deposit requirements.

<p>A. An applicant for a license as a terminal operator, supplier, importer, blender, permissive supplier, distributor, or aviation consumer shall file with the Commissioner a bond or certificate of deposit. The bond or certificate of deposit shall be conditioned upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter, be payable to the Commonwealth, and be in the form required by the Commissioner. The amount of the bond or certificate of deposit shall be as follows:</p><p>1. For an applicant for a license as a (i) terminal operator, (ii) supplier who is a position holder or a person who receives motor fuel pursuant to a two-party exchange, (iii) bonded importer, or (iv) permissive supplier, the amount shall be $2,000,000; and</p><p>2. For an applicant for a license as (i) a supplier who is a fuel alcohol provider but is neither a position holder nor a person who receives motor fuel pursuant to a two-party exchange; (ii) an occasional importer; (iii) a distributor; (iv) a blender; or (v) an aviation consumer, the amount shall be three times the applicant's average expected monthly tax liability under this chapter, as determined by the Commissioner. The amount shall not be less than $2,000 nor more than $300,000.</p><p>B. An applicant for a license both as a distributor and as a bonded importer shall file only the bond or certificate of deposit required of a bonded importer. An applicant for two or more of the licenses listed in subdivision A 2 may file one bond or certificate of deposit that covers the combined liabilities of the applicant under all the activities, in which event the amount of the bond or certificate of deposit for the combined activities shall not exceed $300,000.</p><p>C. When notified to do so by the Commissioner, a person who has filed a bond or certificate of deposit and who holds a license listed in subdivision A 2 shall file an additional bond or certificate of deposit in the amount required by the Commissioner. The person shall file the additional bond or certificate of deposit within thirty days after receiving the notice from the Commissioner. However, the amount of the initial bond or certificate of deposit and any additional bond or certificate of deposit filed by the licensee shall not exceed $300,000.</p><p>Any licensee who disagrees with the Commissioner's decision requiring new or additional security shall be entitled to a hearing. Such matter shall, within thirty days, be scheduled for a prompt hearing before the Commissioner after written request for such hearing is received by the Commissioner.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0594'>594</a>.</p>