# ยง 18.2-340.25:1 Authorization to conduct electronic gaming required; fee.

<p>A. In addition to a charitable gaming permit, a social organization shall receive authorization from the Department prior to conducting any electronic gaming pursuant to the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title18.2/chapter8/section18.2-340.26:3/'>18.2-340.26:3</a>. A social organization may request such authorization from the Department by providing certain information, as determined by the Department on a form prescribed by the Department.</p><p>B. All requests for authorization to conduct electronic gaming shall be acted upon by the Department within 45 days from the date of the request. A social organization that meets the necessary requirements pursuant to this article may be, at the discretion of the Department, authorized to conduct electronic gaming pursuant to the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title18.2/chapter8/section18.2-340.26:3/'>18.2-340.26:3</a>. Any such authorization granted by the Department shall be noted on the social organization's charitable gaming permit and shall be valid for the time specified in the permit unless it is sooner suspended or revoked. No authorization to conduct electronic gaming shall be valid for longer than two years. All requests received by the Department shall be a matter of public record.</p><p>All authorizations to conduct electronic gaming shall be subject to regulation by the Department to ensure the public safety and welfare in the operation of electronic games. The authorization shall only be granted after a reasonable investigation has been conducted by the Department.</p><p>C. In no case shall a social organization be authorized to conduct electronic gaming at more than one location.</p><p>D. Requests for authorization to conduct electronic gaming shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department and shall be accompanied by payment of a fee.</p><p>E. Requests for renewal of such authorizations shall be made in accordance with Board regulations. If a complete renewal request is received 45 days or more prior to the expiration of the authorization, the authorization shall continue to be effective until such time as the Department has taken final action. Otherwise, the authorization shall expire at the end of its term.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0722'>722</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>.</p>