# ยง 54.1-3404 Inventories of controlled substances required of certain persons; contents and form of record.

<p>A. Except as set forth in subsection G, every person manufacturing, compounding, processing, selling, dispensing or otherwise disposing of drugs in Schedules I, II, III, IV or V shall take a complete and accurate inventory of all stocks of Schedules I through V drugs on the date he first engages in business. If there are no controlled substances on hand at that time, he shall record this fact as part of the inventory. An inventory taken by use of an oral recording device shall be promptly reduced to writing and maintained in a written, typewritten or printed form. Such inventory shall be made either as of the opening of business or as of the close of business on the inventory date.</p><p>B. After the initial inventory is taken, every person described herein shall take a new inventory at least every two years of all stocks on hand of Schedules I through V drugs. The biennial inventory shall be taken on any date which is within two years of the previous biennial inventory.</p><p>C. The record of such drugs received shall in every case show the date of receipt, the name and address of the person from whom received and the kind and quantity of drugs received, the kind and quantity of drugs produced or removed from process of manufacture, and the date of such production or removal from process of manufacture. The record shall in every case show the proportion of morphine, cocaine, or ecgonine contained in or producible from crude opium or coca leaves received or produced.</p><p>D. The record of all drugs sold, administered, dispensed, or otherwise disposed of, shall show the date of selling, administering, or dispensing, the name and address of the person to whom or for whose use, or the owner and species of animal for which the drugs were sold, administered or dispensed, and the kind and quantity of drugs. Any person selling, administering, dispensing or otherwise disposing of such drugs shall make and sign such record at the time of each transaction. The keeping of a record required by or under the federal laws, containing substantially the same information as is specified above, shall constitute compliance with this section, except that every such record shall contain a detailed list of any drugs lost, destroyed or stolen, the kind and quantity of such drugs, and the date of the discovery of such loss, destruction or theft. The form of records shall be prescribed by the Board.</p><p>E. Whenever any registrant or licensee discovers a theft or any other unusual loss of any controlled substance, he shall immediately report such theft or loss to the Board. If the registrant or licensee is unable to determine the exact kind and quantity of the drug loss, he shall immediately make a complete inventory of all Schedule I through V drugs.</p><p>Within 30 days after the discovery of a loss of drugs, the registrant or licensee shall furnish the Board with a listing of the kind, quantity and strength of such drugs lost.</p><p>F. All records required pursuant to this section shall be maintained completely and accurately for two years from the date of the transaction recorded.</p><p>G. Each person authorized to conduct chemical analyses using controlled substances in the Department of Forensic Science shall comply with the inventory requirements set forth in subsections A through F; however, the following substances shall not be required to be included in such inventory: (i) controlled substances on hand at the time of the inventory in a quantity of less than one kilogram, other than a hallucinogenic controlled substance listed in Schedule I of this chapter; or (ii) hallucinogenic controlled substances, other than lysergic acid diethylamide, on hand at the time of the inventory in a quantity of less than 20 grams; or (iii) lysergic acid diethylamide on hand at the time of the inventory in a quantity of less than 0.5 grams. Further, no inventory shall be required of known or suspected controlled substances that have been received as evidentiary materials for analyses by the Department of Forensic Science.</p><p>1970, c. 650, ยง 54-524.56; 1972, c. 798; 1978, c. 833; 1979, c. 435; 1980, c. 203; 1982, c. 278; 1988, c. 765; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0105'>105</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0051'>51</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0868'>868</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>.</p>