# ยง 45.2-1720 (Effective October 1, 2021, until July 1, 2029) Powers and duties of the Authority.

<p>In addition to the other powers and duties established under this article, the Authority has the power and duty to:</p><p>1. Adopt, use, and alter at will an official seal;</p><p>2. Make bylaws for the management and regulation of its affairs;</p><p>3. Maintain an office at any place within the Commonwealth it designates;</p><p>4. Accept, hold, and administer moneys, grants, securities, or other property transferred, given, or bequeathed to the Authority, absolutely or in trust, from any source, public or private, for the purposes for which the Authority is established;</p><p>5. Make and execute contracts and all other instruments and agreements necessary or convenient for the exercise of its powers and functions;</p><p>6. Employ, in its discretion, consultants, attorneys, architects, engineers, accountants, financial experts, investment bankers, superintendents, managers, and any other employees and agents necessary and fix their compensation to be payable from funds made available to the Authority;</p><p>7. Invest its funds as permitted by applicable law;</p><p>8. Receive and accept from any federal or private agency, foundation, corporation, association, or person grants, donations of money, or real or personal property for the benefit of the Authority, and receive and accept from the Commonwealth or any other state, from any municipality, county, or other political subdivision thereof, or from any other source, aid or contributions of either money, property, or other things of value, to be held, used, and applied for the purposes for which such grants and contributions may be made;</p><p>9. Enter into agreements with any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States or of the Commonwealth and with lenders and enter into loans with contracting parties for the purpose of planning, regulating, and providing for the financing or assisting in the financing of any project;</p><p>10. Do any lawful act necessary or appropriate to carry out the powers granted or reasonably implied in this article;</p><p>11. Leverage the strength in energy workforce and energy technology research and development of the Commonwealth's public and private institutions of higher education;</p><p>12. Support the development of pump storage hydropower in Southwest Virginia and energy storage generally;</p><p>13. Promote the development of renewable energy generation facilities on brownfield sites, including abandoned mine sites;</p><p>14. Promote energy workforce development;</p><p>15. Assist energy technology research and development by, among other actions, promoting the development of a Southwest Virginia Energy Park; and</p><p>16. Identify and work with the Commonwealth's industries and nonprofit partners in advancing efforts related to energy development in Southwest Virginia.</p><p>2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0555'>555</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0556'>556</a>, ยง 67-1603; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>