# ยง 17.1-319 Custody and distribution of reports of Supreme Court; Court of Appeals.

<p>A. The Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia shall be charged with the custody, disposal and sale of the published reports of the decisions of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals. One copy of each volume of the reports hereafter published shall be furnished either in print or in electronic format to each of the following for their use and the use of their successors in office:</p><p>1. The Clerk and the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court;</p><p>2. The reporter of the Supreme Court;</p><p>3. The judges and retired judges of each circuit court of this Commonwealth;</p><p>4. The clerk of each such court;</p><p>5. Each judge of a general district court and each judge of a juvenile and domestic relations district court, and such district courts as shall be designated by the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia not to exceed 250 copies;</p><p>6. The Clerk of the House of Delegates;</p><p>7. The Clerk of the Senate;</p><p>8. The Division of Legislative Services;</p><p>9. The Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission;</p><p>10. The Secretary of the Virginia State Bar;</p><p>11. The clerk of each of the district courts of the United States held in this Commonwealth for the use of the courts and the members of the bar practicing therein;</p><p>12. The attorney for the Commonwealth in counties and cities, and the county attorney in those counties which created the office of the county attorney;</p><p>13. The Attorney General, his deputies and assistants upon written application to the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia.</p><p>B. Two copies of each volume of the reports hereafter published shall be furnished to each of the justices of the Supreme Court, to each of the judges of the Court of Appeals and to each of the members of the State Corporation Commission for their use and for the use of their successors in office, except that each justice, judge or member shall be entitled to retain for personal use one copy of each volume in which appear any opinions authored by him. Eight copies of each volume of the reports hereafter published shall be furnished to each institution of higher education in the Commonwealth in which a law school approved by the American Bar Association is established. Fifteen copies of each such volume shall be placed in the State Law Library at Richmond.</p><p>C. He shall place in the Law Library at Richmond such additional copies of all of the decisions of the Supreme Court as are available, so as to make up 15 complete sets of the Virginia Reports for the justices' private offices, conference rooms and the Law Library.</p><p>1980, c. 615, ยง 17-111.6; 1984, c. 703; 1990, c. 739; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872'>872</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0141'>141</a>.</p>