# § 58.1-3271 Appointment of board of assessors and real estate appraiser or board of equalization in counties and cities.

<p>A. In the event the commissioner of revenue, pursuant to the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3270/'>58.1-3270</a>, will not consent to make an annual or biennial assessment and equalization of real estate for local taxation in any county or city, the governing body thereof may appoint a board of real estate assessors consisting of three members, who shall be initially appointed as follows: one for a term of one year, one for a term of two years and one for a term of three years. As the terms of the initial appointees expire, their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years each. The compensation of the members of the board shall be fixed by the governing body, who shall also provide necessary clerical and other assistance to the board. The board shall assess all real estate within the county or city on an annual or biennial basis and transfer such assessment to the commissioner of revenue. Prior to transferring the final assessment to the commissioner of the revenue, the board shall give any real property owner whose property has been assessed an opportunity to be heard.</p><p>B. The governing body of any such county or city may appoint a real estate appraiser either (i) an employee who qualified by the Department or (ii) an independent contractor who holds a valid certification issued by the Department to perform the actual function of determining value for real estate in the county or city for use by the board of assessors. Such appraiser may serve in lieu of the board of assessors provided for in subsection A, in which event he shall assess all real estate within the county or city on an annual or biennial basis and transfer such assessment to the commissioner of the revenue. In the event such appraiser is in addition to the board of assessors, he shall assemble information concerning real property in the county or city at the request of such board of real estate assessors and prepare and preserve all records of the board including the minutes of its meetings. The appraiser's compensation shall be fixed by the governing body.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 58-769.3, 58-776.3, 58-788; 1950, p. 701; 1968, c. 631; 1979, c. 577; 1984, c. 675; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0540'>540</a>.</p>