# ยง 2.2-220.5 Chief Resilience Officer.

<p>A. The Governor shall designate a Chief Resilience Officer. The Chief Resilience Officer shall serve as the primary coordinator of resilience and adaptation initiatives in Virginia and as the primary point of contact regarding issues related to resilience, recurrent flooding, all flooding-related pre-disaster hazard mitigation, and adaptation. The Chief Resilience Officer shall be equally responsible for all urban, suburban, and rural areas of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Chief Resilience Officer's duties, in consultation with the Special Assistant to the Governor for Coastal Adaptation and Protection, shall include but not be limited to the following:</p><p>1. Identify and monitor those areas of the Commonwealth that are at greatest risk from recurrent flooding and increased future flooding and recommend actions that both the private and public sectors should consider in order to increase the resilience of such areas.</p><p>2. Upon the request of any locality in the Commonwealth in which is located a substantial flood defense or catchment area, including a levee, reservoir, dam, catch basin, or wetland or lake improved or constructed for the purpose of flood control, review and comment on plans for the construction or substantial reinforcement of such flood defense or catchment area.</p><p>3. Serve as the primary point of contact on all issues relating to pre-disaster hazard mitigation and coordinate the planning of resilience initiatives across state government.</p><p>4. Create and oversee the implementation of a Virginia Flood Protection Master Plan and a Virginia Coastal Resilience Master Plan in accordance with ยง <a href='/vacode/10.1-602/'>10.1-602</a> to anticipate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from significant multi-hazard threats with minimum damage to social well-being, health, the economy, and the environment.</p><p>5. Initiate and assist with the pursuit of funding opportunities for resilience initiatives at both the state and local levels and help to oversee and coordinate funding initiatives of all agencies of the Commonwealth.</p><p>6. Coordinate the dissemination of the best available science, legal guidance, and planning strategies to the public.</p><p>7. Beginning July 1, 2023, and every two years thereafter, report to the Governor and the General Assembly on the status of flood resilience in the Commonwealth. The report shall serve as an evaluation of flood protection for critical infrastructure, including human and natural infrastructure. The report shall identify risks to critical transportation, energy, communication, water and food supply, waste management, health, and emergency services infrastructure. The report shall also include the status of flood resilience planning. In preparing the report, the Chief Resilience Officer shall also coordinate with the Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and shall be assisted by all relevant Secretariats and agencies.</p><p>2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0786'>786</a>.</p>