# ยง 3.2-2806 Plant Pollination Fund established.

<p>There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Plant Pollination Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All moneys derived from appropriations from the general fund of the state treasury, grants of private or government money designated for specified activities authorized pursuant to this chapter; fees for services rendered pursuant to this chapter; payment for products, equipment, or material or any other thing supplied by the Commissioner; payment for educational publications, materials or supplies provided by the Commissioner; and grants, bequests and donations shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. All funds collected for or received by the Commissioner shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. The Commissioner is further authorized to accept materials, supplies, property, land and personal services contributed from any source. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the administration of this chapter. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the Commissioner on warrants issued by the Comptroller.</p><p>1977, c. 452, ยง 3.1-610.27; 1978, c. 267; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0594'>594</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0681'>681</a>.</p>