# ยง 45.2-1902 (Effective October 1, 2021; Expires July 1, 2025) Virginia Solar Energy Development and Energy Storage Authority established; purpose.

<p>The Virginia Solar Energy Development Authority is continued as the Virginia Solar Energy Development and Energy Storage Authority. The Authority constitutes a political subdivision of the Commonwealth. The Authority is established for the purposes of (i) facilitating, coordinating, and supporting the development, either by the Authority or by other qualified entities, of the solar energy and energy storage industries and solar energy and energy storage projects by developing programs that increase the availability of financing for solar energy projects and energy storage projects; (ii) facilitating the increase of solar energy generation systems and energy storage projects on public and private sector facilities in the Commonwealth; (iii) promoting the growth of the Commonwealth's solar and energy storage industries; (iv) providing a hub for collaboration between entities, both public and private, to partner on solar energy projects and energy storage projects; and (v) positioning the Commonwealth as a leader in research, development, commercialization, manufacturing, and deployment of energy storage technology. The Authority may also consult with research institutions, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and stakeholders as the Authority deems appropriate. The Authority has only those powers enumerated in this article.</p><p>2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0090'>90</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0398'>398</a>, ยง 67-1501; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>