# ยง 2.2-233.1 Virginia Military Community Infrastructure Grant Program and Fund.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Military Community Infrastructure Grant Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All funds appropriated for such purpose and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on its behalf shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of a biennium shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used, in the sole discretion of the Governor, to provide an annual grant award to eligible military communities in the Commonwealth and carry out the purposes of the Virginia Military Community Infrastructure Grant Program described in subsection B. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Secretary.</p><p>B. The Fund shall be used by the Governor to support military communities in the Commonwealth by awarding grants to aid the planning and design, construction, or completion of infrastructure projects that enhance military readiness, installation resiliency, or quality of life for military communities. Any such project shall be clearly defined, shall include a measurable outcome in support of the task force mission of protecting military installations in the Commonwealth, and shall typically be completed within two years of contracting.</p><p>C. The Secretary shall develop guidance and criteria to be used in awarding grants under the Program, and an annual grant application, which shall include, at a minimum, requirements for the grantee to:</p><p>1. Report expenditures each quarter;</p><p>2. Retain all invoices, bills, receipts, canceled checks, proof of payment, and similar documentation to substantiate expenditures of grant funding;</p><p>3. Provide a 50 percent cash match from nonstate funds; and</p><p>4. Return excess state grant funding within 30 days after the term of the grant expires.</p><p>D. Prior to the distribution of any funds, any grantee seeking funding pursuant to this section shall submit a grant application to the Secretary for consideration. The Commonwealth shall have the right to make inspections and copies of the books and records of a grantee at any time. A grantee shall undergo an audit for the grant period and provide a copy of the audit report to the Secretary.</p><p>E. As used in this section:</p><p>"Fund" means the Virginia Military Community Infrastructure Grant Fund created pursuant to this section.</p><p>"Infrastructure" means any project that will (i) preserve, protect, and enhance military installations; (ii) support the state's position in research and development related to or arising out of military missions and contracting; and (iii) improve the military-friendly environment for service members, military dependents, military retirees, and businesses that bring military-related and base-related jobs to the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Military community" means any locality that can demonstrate that more than five percent of the community's economy is derived from military funding.</p><p>"Program" means the Virginia Military Community Infrastructure Grant Program created pursuant to this section.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0345'>345</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0346'>346</a>.</p>