# ยง 13.1-855 Number and election of directors.

<p>A. A board of directors shall consist of one or more individuals, with the number specified in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws, or if not specified in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws, with the number specified in or fixed in accordance with the articles of incorporation. The number of directors may be increased or decreased from time to time by amendment to the bylaws, unless the articles of incorporation provide that a change in the number of directors shall be made only by amendment of the articles of incorporation.</p><p>B. The members may adopt a bylaw fixing the number of directors and may direct that such bylaw not be amended by the board of directors.</p><p>C. The articles of incorporation or bylaws may establish a variable range for the size of the board of directors by fixing a minimum and maximum number of directors. If a variable range is established, the number of directors may be fixed or changed from time to time, within the minimum and maximum, by the members or the board of directors. However, to the extent that the corporation has members with voting privileges, only the members may change the range for the size of the board of directors or change from a fixed to a variable-range size board or vice versa.</p><p>D. Directors shall be elected or appointed in the manner provided in the articles of incorporation. If the corporation has members with voting privileges, directors shall be elected at the first annual members' meeting and at each annual meeting thereafter unless their terms are staggered under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-858/'>13.1-858</a>.</p><p>E. No individual shall be named or elected as a director without his prior consent.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 13.1-220; 1956, c. 428; 1983, c. 393; 1985, c. 522; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>.</p>