# ยง 3.2-5120 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advertisement" means all representations disseminated in any manner or by any means, other than by labeling, for the purpose of inducing, or that are likely to induce, directly or indirectly, the purchase of food.</p><p>"Butter" means the food product generally known as butter, which is made exclusively from milk or cream, or both, with or without common salt, and with or without coloring matter, and containing not less than 80 percent by weight of milk fat, having allowed for all tolerances.</p><p>"Contaminated with filth" applies to any food not securely protected from dust, dirt, and as far as may be necessary by all reasonable means, from all foreign or injurious contaminations.</p><p>"Federal act" means the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (Title 21 U.S.C. ยง 301 et seq.).</p><p>"Food" means all articles used for food, drink, confectionery, or condiment, for humans or other animals, whether simple, mixed, or compound, and all substances or ingredients used in the preparation thereof.</p><p>"Immediate container" does not mean package liners.</p><p>"Label" means a display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container of any article.</p><p>"Labeling" means all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter upon an article or any of its containers or wrappers, or accompanying such article.</p><p>"Selling of food" means the manufacture, production, processing, packing, exposure, offer, possession, and holding of any such article for sale; the sale of any such article; and the supplying of any such articles in the conduct of any food establishment.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-307; 1966, c. 702, ยง 3.1-387; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>