# § 56-16.1 Telephone, telegraph or electric power lines crossing railroads.

<p>A. If a telephone, telegraph or electric power company desires to cross the works of a railroad company and the parties thereto cannot agree on the manner of the crossing or the compensation to be paid or the damages, if any, occasioned by such crossing, then either party may proceed under this section in such case. Such party, after complying with the provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-17/'>56-17</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-18/'>56-18</a>, insofar as they are applicable, may apply to the Commission within thirty days after the submission of the plans and specifications required in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-18/'>56-18</a>, to inquire into the necessity for such crossing, the propriety of the proposed location, all matters pertaining to its construction and operation, and the crossing fee and damages, if any, to be paid to such railroad.</p><p>B. Every such application shall, in addition to the plans and specifications required in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-18/'>56-18</a>, set forth (i) the means applicant proposes to employ to protect persons and property on the premises of the railroad; (ii) the extent to which applicant will safeguard the railroad from damage or destruction of persons or property resulting from such crossing including a provision to save the railroad harmless from claims arising as a result of such crossing; (iii) the conditions under which usage of the crossing will terminate and all interests revert to the railroad; and (iv) the means which applicant proposes to employ to prevent interference with the unlimited use of the property by the railroad including, but without limitation, the communication and transportation system on the property proposed to be crossed. The Commission may, at its discretion, require the applicant to provide a bond or insurance conditioned to save the railroad harmless from claims arising as a result of such crossing. The Commission may, as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-19/'>56-19</a>, employ experts to advise it with reference to such application.</p><p>C. If the Commission grants such application in whole or in part, the order of the Commission shall grant a license for such crossing upon compliance with the terms of the order, and shall fix a fee for such crossing and determine the damages, if any; in fixing the amount of such fees the Commission shall consider the costs involved to the company to be crossed and the periodic inspection of such works.</p><p>D. Construction shall not begin until permitted under an order provided for in paragraph C hereof unless the parties agree thereto; provided that the Commission may allow construction to proceed pending the determination of the fee and damages, if any.</p><p>1976, c. 328.</p>