# § 16.1-248.3 Medical records of juveniles in secure facility.

<p>Whenever a juvenile is placed in a secure facility or a shelter care facility pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-248.1/'>16.1-248.1</a>, the director of the facility or his designee shall be entitled to obtain medical records concerning the juvenile from a provider. Prior to using the authority granted by this section to obtain such records, the director of the facility or his designee shall make a reasonable attempt to obtain consent for the release of the records from the juvenile's parent or legal guardian or, in instances where the juvenile may consent pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2969/'>54.1-2969</a>, from the juvenile. The director of the facility or his designee may proceed to obtain the records from the provider if such consent is refused or is not readily obtainable and the records are necessary (i) for the provision of health care to the juvenile, (ii) to protect the health and safety of the juvenile or other residents or staff of the facility or (iii) to maintain the security and safety of the facility.</p><p>The director or his designee shall document in writing the reason that the records were requested and that a reasonable attempt was made to obtain consent for the release of records and that consent was refused or not readily obtainable.</p><p>No person to whom disclosure of records was made pursuant to this section shall redisclose or otherwise reveal the records, beyond the purpose for which such disclosure was made, without first obtaining specific consent to redisclose from the juvenile's parent or legal guardian or, in instances where the juvenile may consent pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2969/'>54.1-2969</a>, from the juvenile.</p><p>Substance abuse records subject to federal regulations, Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records, 42 C.F.R. Part 2, shall not be subject to the provisions of this section. The disclosure of results of a test for human immunodeficiency virus shall not be permitted except as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-36.1/'>32.1-36.1</a>.</p><p>The definitions of "provider" and "records" in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-127.1:03/'>32.1-127.1:03</a> shall apply to this section.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0983'>983</a>.</p>