# ยง 16.1-351 Court order approving standby guardianship; authority; when effective.

<p>Upon consideration of the factors set out in ยง <a href='/vacode/20-124.3/'>20-124.3</a> and finding that (i) the child's parent is a qualified parent and (ii) appointment of a standby guardian is in the best interest of the child, the court shall appoint a proper and suitable person as standby guardian and, if requested, a proper and suitable person as alternate standby guardian. However, when a petition is filed by a person other than a parent having custody of the child, the standby guardian shall be appointed only with the consent of the qualified parent unless the court finds that such consent cannot be given for medical reasons.</p><p>The order shall specify the triggering event and shall provide that the authority of the standby guardian is effective (a) upon receipt by the standby guardian of (1) a determination of incompetence of the parent, (2) a certificate of death of the parent, (3) evidence of the detention, incarceration, or deportation of the parent connected to an immigration action, or (4) the earlier of clause (1), (2), or (3) or (b) if so requested in the petition, upon receipt by the standby guardian of a written consent of the qualified parent and filing of the consent with the court. The written consent shall be executed after the entry of the court order and signed by the qualified parent, or by another in his presence and on his behalf.</p><p>As soon as practicable after entry of the order, a copy shall be served on the standby guardian.</p><p>A standby guardian shall have the powers and duties of a guardian of the person and a guardian of the property of a minor, unless otherwise specified in the order.</p><p>The standby guardian shall file with the court, as soon as practicable but in no event later than 30 days following a parent's death, determination of incompetence, consent, or detention, incarceration, or deportation connected to an immigration action, a copy of the certificate of death, determination of incompetence, consent, or evidence of such detention, incarceration, or deportation of the qualified parent upon which his authority is based. Failure to file within the time specified shall be grounds for the court to rescind the authority of the standby guardian sua sponte or upon petition of any person but all acts undertaken by the standby guardian on behalf of and in the interests of the child shall be valid and enforceable.</p><p>1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0829'>829</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0241'>241</a>.</p>