# § 32.1-260 Petition for court order establishing record of birth when delayed certificate rejected; hearing; notice; findings; registration of court order.

<p>A. If a delayed certificate of birth is rejected under the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-259/'>32.1-259</a>, a petition for an order establishing a record of the date and place of the birth and the parentage of the person whose birth is to be registered may be filed with the circuit court of the county or city in which the person resides; or if the person is a citizen of this Commonwealth without a fixed residence or a resident of another state, the petition may be to the circuit court of the county or city in which such person's birth occurred. In case of a minor who has no parent or guardian, the application may be made by his next friend.</p><p>B. Such petition shall allege:</p><p>1. That the person for whom a delayed certificate of birth is sought was born in this Commonwealth;</p><p>2. That no record of birth of such person can be found in the records of the State Registrar or the county or city registrar;</p><p>3. That diligent efforts by the petitioner have failed to obtain the evidence required by regulations pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-259/'>32.1-259</a>; and</p><p>4. That the State Registrar has refused to register a delayed certificate of birth; and</p><p>5. Such other allegations as may be required.</p><p>C. The petition shall be accompanied by the notice of the State Registrar made in accordance with subdivision D 1 of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-259/'>32.1-259</a> and all documentary evidence which was submitted to the State Registrar in support of such registration.</p><p>D. The court shall fix a time and place for hearing the petition and the petitioner shall give the State Registrar five days' notice of said hearing. The State Registrar, or his authorized representative, may appear and testify in the proceeding.</p><p>E. If the court finds from the evidence presented that the person for whom a delayed certificate of birth is sought was born in this Commonwealth, it shall make findings as to the place and date of birth, parentage, and such other findings as may be required and shall issue an order to establish a record of birth on a form furnished by the State Registrar. This order shall include the birth data to be registered, a description of the evidence presented in the manner prescribed by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-259/'>32.1-259</a>, and the date of the court's action.</p><p>F. The clerk of court shall forward each such form to the State Registrar not later than the tenth day of the calendar month following the month in which the order was entered. Such form shall be registered by the State Registrar and shall constitute the certificate of birth, from which certifications may be issued in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-272/'>32.1-272</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 32-353.18; 1954, c. 201; 1956, c. 260; 1960, c. 451; 1979, c. 711; 1983, c. 240.</p>