# ยง 54.1-3040.8 Rulemaking.

<p>A. The Commission shall exercise its rulemaking powers pursuant to the criteria set forth in this Article and the rules adopted thereunder. Rules and amendments shall become binding as of the date specified in each rule or amendment and shall have the same force and effect as provisions of this Compact.</p><p>B. Rules or amendments to the rules shall be adopted at a regular or special meeting of the Commission.</p><p>C. Prior to promulgation and adoption of a final rule or rules by the Commission, and at least sixty (60) days in advance of the meeting at which the rule will be considered and voted upon, the Commission shall file a notice of proposed rulemaking:</p><p>1. On the website of the Commission; and</p><p>2. On the website of each licensing board or the publication in which each state would otherwise publish proposed rules.</p><p>D. The notice of proposed rulemaking shall include:</p><p>1. The proposed time, date, and location of the meeting in which the rule will be considered and voted upon;</p><p>2. The text of the proposed rule or amendment and the reason for the proposed rule;</p><p>3. A request for comments on the proposed rule from any interested person; and</p><p>4. The manner in which interested persons may submit notice to the Commission of their intention to attend the public hearing and submit any written comments.</p><p>E. Prior to adoption of a proposed rule, the Commission shall allow persons to submit written data, facts, opinions, and arguments, which shall be made available to the public.</p><p>F. The Commission shall grant an opportunity for a public hearing before it adopts a rule or amendment.</p><p>G. The Commission shall publish the place, time, and date of the scheduled public hearing.</p><p>1. Hearings shall be conducted in a manner providing each person who wishes to comment a fair and reasonable opportunity to comment orally or in writing. All hearings will be recorded, and a copy will be made available upon request.</p><p>2. Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring a separate hearing on each rule. Rules may be grouped for the convenience of the Commission at hearings required by this section.</p><p>H. If no one appears at the public hearing, the Commission may proceed with promulgation of the proposed rule.</p><p>I. Following the scheduled hearing date, or by the close of business on the scheduled hearing date if the hearing was not held, the Commission shall consider all written and oral comments received.</p><p>J. The Commission shall, by majority vote of all administrators, take final action on the proposed rule and shall determine the effective date of the rule, if any, based on the rulemaking record and the full text of the rule.</p><p>K. Upon determination that an emergency exists, the Commission may consider and adopt an emergency rule without prior notice, opportunity for comment, or hearing, provided that the usual rulemaking procedures provided in this Compact and in this section shall be retroactively applied to the rule as soon as reasonably possible, in no event later than ninety (90) days after the effective date of the rule. For the purposes of this provision, an emergency rule is one that must be adopted immediately in order to:</p><p>1. Meet an imminent threat to public health, safety, or welfare;</p><p>2. Prevent a loss of Commission or party state funds; or</p><p>3. Meet a deadline for the promulgation of an administrative rule that is required by federal law or rule.</p><p>L. The Commission may direct revisions to a previously adopted rule or amendment for purposes of correcting typographical errors, errors in format, errors in consistency, or grammatical errors. Public notice of any revisions shall be posted on the website of the Commission. The revision shall be subject to challenge by any person for a period of thirty (30) days after posting. The revision may be challenged only on grounds that the revision results in a material change to a rule. A challenge shall be made in writing, and delivered to the Commission, prior to the end of the notice period. If no challenge is made, the revision will take effect without further action. If the revision is challenged, the revision may not take effect without the approval of the Commission.</p><p>2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0108'>108</a>.</p>