# § 54.1-3443 Board to administer article.

<p>A. The Board shall administer this article and may add substances to or deschedule or reschedule all substances enumerated in the schedules in this article pursuant to the procedures of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). In making a determination regarding a substance, the Board shall consider the following:</p><p>1. The actual or relative potential for abuse;</p><p>2. The scientific evidence of its pharmacological effect, if known;</p><p>3. The state of current scientific knowledge regarding the substance;</p><p>4. The history and current pattern of abuse;</p><p>5. The scope, duration, and significance of abuse;</p><p>6. The risk to the public health;</p><p>7. The potential of the substance to produce psychic or physical dependence; and</p><p>8. Whether the substance is an immediate precursor of a substance already controlled under this article.</p><p>B. After considering the factors enumerated in subsection A, the Board shall make findings and issue a regulation controlling the substance if it finds the substance has a potential for abuse.</p><p>C. If the Board designates a substance as an immediate precursor, substances which are precursors of the controlled precursor shall not be subject to control solely because they are precursors of the controlled precursor.</p><p>D. If the Board, in consultation with the Department of Forensic Science, determines the substance shall be placed into Schedule I or II pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3445/'>54.1-3445</a> or <a href='/vacode/54.1-3447/'>54.1-3447</a>, the Board may amend its regulations pursuant to Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4006/'>2.2-4006</a> et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act. Prior to making such amendments, the Board shall conduct a public hearing. At least 30 days prior to conducting such hearing, it shall post notice of the hearing on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall and shall send notice of the hearing to any persons requesting to be notified of a regulatory action. In the notice, the Board shall include a list of all substances it intends to schedule by regulation. The Board shall notify the House Committee for Courts of Justice and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary of any new substance added to Schedule I or II pursuant to this subsection. Any substance added to Schedule I or II pursuant to this subsection shall remain on Schedule I or II for a period of 18 months. Upon expiration of such 18-month period, such substance shall be descheduled unless a general law is enacted adding such substance to Schedule I or II. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude the Board from adding substances to or descheduling or rescheduling all substances enumerated in the schedules pursuant to the provisions of subsections A, B, and E.</p><p>E. If any substance is designated, rescheduled, or descheduled as a controlled substance under federal law and notice of such action is given to the Board, the Board may similarly control the substance under this chapter after the expiration of 30 days from publication in the Federal Register of a final or interim final order or rule designating a substance as a controlled substance or rescheduling or descheduling a substance by amending its regulations in accordance with the requirements of Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4006/'>2.2-4006</a> et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act. Prior to making such amendments, the Board shall post notice of the hearing on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall and shall send notice of the hearing to any persons requesting to be notified of a regulatory action. The Board shall include a list of all substances it intends to schedule by regulation in such notice.</p><p>F. Authority to control under this section does not extend to distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, or tobacco as those terms are defined or used in Title 4.1.</p><p>G. The Board shall exempt any nonnarcotic substance from a schedule if such substance may, under the provisions of the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. § 301 et seq.) or state law, be lawfully sold over the counter without a prescription.</p><p>1972, c. 798, § 54-524.84:1; 1976, c. 614; 1988, c. 765; 1993, c. 866; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0408'>408</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0674'>674</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0719'>719</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0416'>416</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0432'>432</a>.</p>