# ยง 8.01-581.6 Conduct of proceedings.

<p>In the conduct of its proceedings:</p><p>1. The testimony of the witnesses shall be given under oath. Members of the medical review panel, once sworn, shall have the power to administer oaths.</p><p>2. In the event a hearing is held, the parties are entitled to be heard, to present relevant evidence, and to cross-examine witnesses to the extent necessary to enable the panel to render an opinion as specified in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-581.7/'>8.01-581.7</a>. The rules of evidence need not be observed. The medical review panel may proceed with the hearing and shall render an opinion upon the evidence produced, notwithstanding the failure of a party duly notified to appear.</p><p>3. The medical review panel may issue or cause to be issued, on its own motion or on application of any party, subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses and for the production of books, records, documents, and other evidence. Subpoenas so issued shall be served and, upon application by a party or the panel to a court of proper venue having jurisdiction over a motion for judgment based on such claim, enforced in the manner provided for the service and enforcement of subpoenas in a civil action. All provisions of law compelling a person under subpoena to testify are applicable.</p><p>4. [Repealed.]</p><p>5. The hearing shall be conducted by all members of the medical review panel unless the parties otherwise agree. A majority of the members present may determine any question and may render an opinion.</p><p>6. The medical review panel members may apply their expertise in evaluating the evidence giving due regard to the nature of the claim and the nature of the practice of the health care provider, whether expert medical opinions are presented by the parties or not.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 8-916; 1976, c. 611; 1977, c. 617; 1979, c. 261; 1984, c. 777; 1986, c. 227.</p>