# ยง 3.2-4904 Registration fees; terms of registration; renewal of registration.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall, before issuing a certificate of registration for any animal remedy, collect from the applicant for such certificate a registration fee of $25 for each separate animal remedy registered. When an animal remedy has been registered and the registration fee paid by the manufacturer or distributor, no other person shall be required to pay such fee.</p><p>B. The registrant shall pay a registration fee for the registration year of January 1 through December 31. Each registration shall expire on December 31 of the year for which it is issued. A registration is valid through January 31 of the next ensuing year or until the issuance of the renewal registration, whichever event occurs first, so long as the holder of the registration has filed a renewal application with the Commissioner on or before December 31 of the year for which the current registration was issued and has paid the registration fee to the Commissioner. The granting of registration does not constitute the Commissioner's recommendation or endorsement of the animal remedy.</p><p>C. If the Commissioner identifies any unregistered animal remedy in commerce in the Commonwealth during the registration year, the Commissioner shall give the person who is required to register the animal remedy, a grace period of 15 working days from issuance of notification to register the animal remedy. Any person required to register an animal remedy who fails to register the animal remedy within the grace period shall pay to the Commissioner a $50 late fee in addition to the registration fee. The Commissioner may issue a stop sale, use, removal, or seizure order upon any animal remedy until the registration is issued.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-646.12; 1956, c. 517; 1966, c. 702, ยง 3.1-842; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>