# ยง 23.1-624 Eligibility criteria.

<p>A. Grants shall be made under the Program to or on behalf of Virginia students who (i) maintained a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.0 on a scale of 4.0 or its equivalent while enrolled in an associate degree program at an associate-degree-granting public institution of higher education, (ii) have received an associate degree at an associate-degree-granting public institution of higher education, (iii) have enrolled in an eligible institution by the fall or spring following the award of such associate degree, (iv) have applied for financial aid, and (v) have demonstrated financial need, defined as an Expected Family Contribution (EFC) of no more than $12,000 as calculated by the federal government using the family's financial information reported on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) form.</p><p>B. Eligibility for a grant under the Program is limited to three academic years. Grants under the Program shall be used only for undergraduate coursework in educational programs other than those providing religious training or theological education.</p><p>C. To remain eligible for a grant under the Program, a student shall continue to demonstrate financial need as defined in subsection A, maintain a cumulative grade point average of at least 3.0 on a scale of 4.0 or its equivalent, and make satisfactory academic progress toward a degree.</p><p>D. Individuals who have failed to meet the federal requirement to register for the Selective Service are not eligible to receive grants pursuant to this article. However, an individual who has failed to register for the Selective Service shall not be denied a right, privilege, or benefit under this section if (i) the requirement to so register has terminated or become inapplicable to the individual and (ii) the individual shows by a preponderance of the evidence that the failure to register was not a knowing and willful failure to register.</p><p>2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0850'>850</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0899'>899</a>, ยง 23-38.10:10; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0806'>806</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0102'>102</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0297'>297</a>.</p>