# ยง 2.2-4376.2 (Effective until July 1, 2027) Disclosure of contributions and gifts during procurement process; civil penalty.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Contribution" means the donation of money or in-kind contributions.</p><p>"In-kind contribution" means the donation of goods, services, property, or other thing of value, other than money. The basis for arriving at the dollar value of an in-kind contribution is as follows: new items are valued at retail value, used items are valued at fair market value, and services rendered are valued at the actual cost of service per hour.</p><p>"Offeror" includes the offeror's owner and any agent, managing member, officer, director, or spouse of the offeror.</p><p>"Public institution of higher education" means the same as that term is defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-100/'>23.1-100</a>.</p><p>B. Every offeror awarded a contract by a public institution of higher education for any construction project that has a total cost of $5 million or more shall disclose any contributions the offeror has made within the previous five-year period totaling $25,000 or more to the public institution of higher education or any private foundation that exists solely to support the public institution of higher education. Any offeror who desires to protest the award or decision to award a contract pursuant to this section shall do so in accordance with the provisions of ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4360/'>2.2-4360</a>; however, no protest shall lie for a claim that the selected offeror was awarded a contract solely based on such offeror's contribution to the public institution of higher education.</p><p>C. Any offeror that knowingly fails to submit the disclosure required by this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $500. The attorney for the Commonwealth shall initiate civil proceedings to enforce the civil penalties. Any civil penalties collected shall be payable to the State Treasurer for deposit to the general fund.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0096'>96</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0097'>97</a>.</p>