# § 33.2-357 Revenue-sharing funds for systems in certain localities.

<p>A. From revenues made available by the General Assembly and appropriated for the improvement, construction, reconstruction, or maintenance of the systems of state highways, the Board may make an equivalent matching allocation to any locality for designations by the governing body of up to $5 million for use by the locality to improve, construct, maintain, or reconstruct the highway systems within such locality with up to $2.5 million for use by the locality to maintain the highway systems within such locality. After adopting a resolution supporting the action, the governing body of the locality may request revenue-sharing funds to improve, construct, reconstruct, or maintain a highway system located in another locality or between two or more localities or to bring subdivision streets, used as such prior to the date specified in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-335/'>33.2-335</a>, up to standards sufficient to qualify them for inclusion in the primary or secondary state highway system. All requests for funding shall be accompanied by a prioritized listing of specified projects.</p><p>B. In allocating funds under this section, the Board shall give priority to projects as follows: first, to projects that have previously received an allocation of funds pursuant to this section; second, to projects that (i) meet a transportation need identified in the Statewide Transportation Plan pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-353/'>33.2-353</a> or (ii) accelerate a project in a locality's capital plan; and third, to projects that address pavement resurfacing and bridge rehabilitation projects where the maintenance needs analysis determines that the infrastructure does not meet the Department's maintenance performance targets.</p><p>C. The Department shall contract with the locality for the implementation of the project. Such contract may cover either a single project or may provide for the locality's implementation of several projects. The locality shall undertake implementation of the particular project by obtaining the necessary permits from the Department in order to ensure that the improvement is consistent with the Department's standards for such improvements. At the request of the locality, the Department may provide the locality with engineering, right-of-way acquisition, construction, or maintenance services for a project with its own forces. The locality shall provide payment to the Department for any such services. If administered by the Department, such contract shall also require that the governing body of the locality pay to the Department within 30 days the local revenue-sharing funds upon written notice by the Department of its intent to proceed. Any project having funds allocated under this program shall be initiated in such a fashion that at least a portion of such funds have been expended within one year of allocation. Any revenue-sharing funds for projects not initiated after two subsequent fiscal years of allocation may be reallocated at the discretion of the Board.</p><p>D. Total Commonwealth funds allocated by the Board under this section shall not exceed the greater of $100 million or seven percent of funds available for distribution pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-358/'>33.2-358</a> prior to the distribution of funds pursuant to this section, whichever is greater, in each fiscal year, subject to appropriation for such purpose. For any fiscal year in which less than the full program allocation has been allocated by the Board to specific governing bodies, those localities requesting the maximum allocation under subsection A may be allowed an additional allocation at the discretion of the Board.</p><p>E. The funds allocated by the Board under this section shall be distributed and administered in accordance with the revenue-sharing program guidelines established by the Board.</p><p>2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0827'>827</a>, § 33.1-23.05; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0608'>608</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0830'>830</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0868'>868</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>,  <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0733'>733</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0684'>684</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0828'>828</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>