# ยง 18.2-246.6 Definitions.

<p>For purposes of this article:</p><p>"Adult" means a person who is at least the legal minimum purchasing age.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority.</p><p>"Consumer" means an individual who is not permitted as a wholesaler pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-1011/'>58.1-1011</a> or who is not a retailer.</p><p>"Delivery sale" means any sale of cigarettes to a consumer in the Commonwealth regardless of whether the seller is located in the Commonwealth where either (i) the purchaser submits the order for such sale by means of a telephonic or other method of voice transmission, the mails or any other delivery service, or the Internet or other online service; or (ii) the cigarettes are delivered by use of the mails or a delivery service. A sale of cigarettes not for personal consumption to a person who is a wholesale dealer or retail dealer, as such terms are defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-1000/'>58.1-1000</a>, shall not be a delivery sale. A delivery of cigarettes, not through the mail or by a common carrier, to a consumer performed by the owner, employee or other individual acting on behalf of a retailer authorized to sell such cigarettes shall not be a delivery sale.</p><p>"Delivery service" means any person who is engaged in the commercial delivery of letters, packages, or other containers.</p><p>"Legal minimum purchasing age" is the minimum age at which an individual may legally purchase cigarettes in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Mails" or "mailing" means the shipment of cigarettes through the United States Postal Service.</p><p>"Shipping container" means a container in which cigarettes are shipped in connection with a delivery sale.</p><p>"Shipping documents" means bills of lading, airbills, or any other documents used to evidence the undertaking by a delivery service to deliver letters, packages, or other containers.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1010'>1010</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0839'>839</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038'>38</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730'>730</a>.</p>