# ยง 3.2-5902 Certificate of veterinary inspection required for importation of certain pet animals; examination; exceptions; penalty.

<p>A. It shall be unlawful for any person to import into the Commonwealth from another state any pet animal, including dogs, cats, monkeys, or other animals, ferae naturae, wild or tame under domestication or in custody, or any poultry not intended for commercial use that by its nature is fit for use only as a pet, unless such animal is accompanied by a certificate of veterinary inspection issued by an accredited veterinarian. Such certificate shall be on an official interstate certificate of veterinary inspection issued by the state of origin, shall be dated no more than 10 days before shipment, and shall contain such evidence of proof of the health of the animal as the Board, by regulation, may require.</p><p>B. Any animal imported into the Commonwealth without a certificate may be examined immediately by the State Veterinarian, his representative, or a licensed veterinarian designated by him, and the examination cost may be charged to the owner or the person in possession of the animal. If, in the opinion of the State Veterinarian or his representative, there is danger from contagion or infection, the animal may be placed in quarantine at the expense of the owner until all danger of infection or contagion has passed, whereupon the animal shall be released upon the order of the State Veterinarian or his representative.</p><p>C. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any ornamental aquarium fish or invertebrate animal, or an animal accompanied by a passport approved by the State Veterinarian. The provisions of this section shall also not apply to: (i) any animal as herein defined passing directly through the Commonwealth to another state in interstate commerce, or when such animal is kept properly under control by its owner or custodian when passing through the Commonwealth to another state; (ii) any animal brought into the Commonwealth by a resident or by a resident of another state who intends to make his residence in the Commonwealth except if brought into the Commonwealth with the intent of offering it for public sale, trade, or promotional incentive; or (iii) to any animal brought into the Commonwealth temporarily for the purpose of hunting or legal exhibition within this state.</p><p>D. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-576.1; 1964, c. 153; 1966, c. 702, ยง 3.1-735; 1993, c. 174; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0311'>311</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0333'>333</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>