# ยง 30-388 (Expires July 1, 2026) Powers and duties of the Commission.

<p>The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. Assessing the Commonwealth's school facilities and determining school construction and modernization funding needs.</p><p>2. Identifying funding mechanisms and making recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly.</p><p>3. Establishing best practices in school modernization and construction for school divisions.</p><p>4. Creating standardized construction designs and procurement practices to recommend and make available to local school divisions.</p><p>5. Identifying potential cost-saving measures for implementation by local school divisions to minimize construction and modernization costs where possible.</p><p>6. Submitting to the General Assembly and the Governor an annual report for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports. The chairman of the Commission shall submit to the General Assembly and the Governor an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Commission no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1044'>1044</a>, ยง 30-380.</p>