# ยง 30-81 Required reports.

<p>A. The Virginia Retirement System shall submit to the General Assembly, through its Commission, both semi-annual and annual reports on the investment programs of the Retirement System. The report shall be presented in a format approved by the Commission and shall include information concerning (i) planned or actual material changes in asset allocation, (ii) investment performance of all asset classes and subclasses, and (iii) investment policies and programs.</p><p>B. The System shall also submit a biennial report on the actuarial soundness of its trust funds, which shall include (i) funding policy and objectives, (ii) current and projected funding levels, (iii) current and projected contribution rates, and (iv) actuarial assumptions.</p><p>C. The System shall furnish such reports or information as may be requested by standing committees of the General Assembly having jurisdiction over the subject matter which is the basis of such committee's inquiry.</p><p>D. The Commission shall publish the following reports concerning the Retirement System: (i) a biennial status report which shall include, at a minimum and where appropriate, findings and recommendations and the status of actions, if any, taken in response to prior recommendations and (ii) with the assistance of an actuary, an actuarial report once every four years.</p><p>E. The Commission's staff shall prepare and maintain an informational guide to the Virginia Retirement System for the members of the General Assembly.</p><p>F. The Auditor of Public Accounts shall complete an annual financial audit of the Virginia Retirement System, the State Police Officers' Retirement System, and the Judicial Retirement System. The Auditor shall report the findings of his audit to the Governor, the General Assembly, the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission, and the Board of Trustees of the Virginia Retirement System. Such audit shall be submitted on or before the first day of the General Assembly session.</p><p>1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0732'>732</a>.</p>