# ยง 58.1-2231 Remittance of tax to supplier.

<p>A. A distributor shall remit tax due on motor fuel removed at a terminal rack to the supplier of the fuel. A licensed distributor shall not be required to remit the tax to the supplier until the date the supplier is required to pay the tax to the Commonwealth or to another state. All tax payments received by a supplier shall be held in trust by the supplier until the supplier remits the tax payment to the Commonwealth or to another state, and the supplier shall constitute the trustee for such tax payments. The date by which an unlicensed distributor is required to remit the tax to a supplier shall be governed by agreement between the supplier and the unlicensed distributor.</p><p>B. A licensed exporter shall remit tax due on motor fuel removed at a terminal rack to the supplier of the fuel. The date by which an exporter shall remit tax shall be governed by the law of the destination state of the exported motor fuel.</p><p>C. A licensed importer shall remit tax due on motor fuel removed at a terminal rack of a permissive or an elective supplier to the supplier of the fuel. A licensed importer who removes fuel from a terminal rack of a permissive or an elective supplier shall not be required to remit the tax to the supplier until the date the supplier is required to pay the tax to the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. The license of a licensed distributor, exporter or importer who fails to pay the full amount of tax required by this chapter is subject to cancellation as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2215/'>58.1-2215</a>.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>.</p>