# § 55.1-1808 Contract disclosure statement; right of cancellation.

<p>A. For purposes of this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Delivery" means that the disclosure packet is delivered to the purchaser or purchaser's authorized agent by one of the methods specified in this section.</p><p>"Purchaser's authorized agent" means any person designated by such purchaser in a ratified real estate contract for purchase and sale of residential real property or other writing designating such agent.</p><p>"Ratified real estate contract" includes any addendum to such contract.</p><p>"Receives," "received," or "receiving" the disclosure packet means that the purchaser or purchaser's authorized agent has received the disclosure packet by one of the methods specified in this section.</p><p>"Seller's authorized agent" means a person designated by such seller in a ratified real estate contract for purchase and sale of residential real property or other writing designating such agent.</p><p>B. Subject to the provisions of subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1814/'>55.1-1814</a>, an owner selling a lot shall disclose in the contract that (i) the lot is located within a development that is subject to the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.); (ii) the Property Owners' Association Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> et seq.) requires the seller to obtain from the property owners' association an association disclosure packet and provide it to the purchaser; (iii) the purchaser may cancel the contract within three days, or up to seven days if extended by the ratified real estate contract, after receiving the association disclosure packet or being notified that the association disclosure packet will not be available; (iv) if the purchaser has received the association disclosure packet, the purchaser has a right to request an update of such disclosure packet in accordance with subsection G of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1810/'>55.1-1810</a> or subsection D of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1811/'>55.1-1811</a>, as appropriate; and (v) the right to receive the association disclosure packet and the right to cancel the contract are waived conclusively if not exercised before settlement.</p><p>For purposes of clause (iii), the association disclosure packet shall be deemed not to be available if (a) a current annual report has not been filed by the association with either the State Corporation Commission pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-936/'>13.1-936</a> or the Common Interest Community Board pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1835/'>55.1-1835</a>, (b) the seller has made a written request to the association that the packet be provided and no such packet has been received within 14 days in accordance with subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1809/'>55.1-1809</a>, or (c) written notice has been provided by the association that a packet is not available.</p><p>C. If the contract does not contain the disclosure required by subsection B, the purchaser's sole remedy is to cancel the contract prior to settlement.</p><p>D. The information contained in the association disclosure packet shall be current as of a date specified on the association disclosure packet prepared in accordance with this section; however, a disclosure packet update or financial update may be requested in accordance with subsection G or H of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1810/'>55.1-1810</a> or subsection D or E of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1811/'>55.1-1811</a>, as appropriate. The purchaser may cancel the contract (i) within three days, or up to seven days if extended by the ratified real estate contract, after the date of the contract if, on or before the date that the purchaser signs the contract, the purchaser receives the association disclosure packet, is notified that the association disclosure packet will not be available, or receives an association disclosure packet that is not in conformity with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1809/'>55.1-1809</a>; (ii) within three days, or up to seven days if extended by the ratified real estate contract, after receiving the association disclosure packet if the association disclosure packet, notice that the association disclosure packet will not be available, or an association disclosure packet that is not in conformity with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1809/'>55.1-1809</a> is hand delivered, delivered by electronic means, or delivered by a commercial overnight delivery service or the United States Postal Service, and a receipt is obtained; or (iii) within six days, or up to 10 days if extended by the ratified real estate contract, after the postmark date if the association disclosure packet, notice that the association disclosure packet will not be available, or an association disclosure packet that is not in conformity with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1809/'>55.1-1809</a> is sent to the purchaser by United States mail. The purchaser also may cancel the contract at any time prior to settlement if the purchaser has not been notified that the association disclosure packet will not be available and the association disclosure packet is not delivered to the purchaser.</p><p>Notice of cancellation shall be provided to the lot owner or his agent by one of the following methods:</p><p>1. Hand delivery;</p><p>2. United States mail, postage prepaid, provided that the sender retains sufficient proof of mailing in the form of a certificate of service prepared by the sender confirming such mailing;</p><p>3. Electronic means, provided that the sender retains sufficient proof of the electronic delivery, which may be in the form of an electronic receipt of delivery, a confirmation that the notice was sent by facsimile, or a certificate of service prepared by the sender confirming the electronic delivery; or</p><p>4. Overnight delivery using a commercial service or the United States Postal Service.</p><p>In the event of a dispute, the sender shall have the burden to demonstrate delivery of the notice of cancellation. Such cancellation shall be without penalty, and the seller shall cause any deposit to be returned promptly to the purchaser.</p><p>E. Whenever any contract is canceled based on a failure to comply with subsection B or D or pursuant to subsection C, any deposit or escrowed funds shall be returned within 30 days of the cancellation, unless the parties to the contract specify in writing a shorter period.</p><p>F. Any rights of the purchaser to cancel the contract provided by this chapter are waived if not exercised prior to settlement.</p><p>G. Except as expressly provided in this chapter, the provisions of this section and § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1809/'>55.1-1809</a> may not be varied by agreement, and the rights conferred by this section and § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1809/'>55.1-1809</a> may not be waived.</p><p>H. Unless otherwise provided in the ratified real estate contract or other writing, delivery to the purchaser's authorized agent shall require delivery to such agent and not to a person other than such agent. Delivery of the disclosure packet may be made by the lot owner or the lot owner's authorized agent.</p><p>I. If the lot is governed by more than one association, the purchaser's right of cancellation may be exercised within the required time frames following delivery of the last disclosure packet or resale certificate.</p><p>2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>, § 55-509.4; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0471'>471</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0226'>226</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0364'>364</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0513'>513</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0121'>121</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0592'>592</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0605'>605</a>.</p>