# § 38.2-3455 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise:</p><p>"Exchange" means either a (i) federal health benefit exchange established by the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to § 1321 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act codified as 42 U.S.C. § 18041(c) in the Commonwealth or (ii) state-based exchange established pursuant to Chapter 65 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-6500/'>38.2-6500</a> et seq.) and § 1311 (b) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act codified as 42 U.S.C. § 18031.</p><p>"Health carrier" has the same meaning assigned to that term in § <a href='/vacode/38.2-3438/'>38.2-3438</a>.</p><p>"Navigator" means an individual or entity described in 42 U.S.C. § 1311(i)(2) that is selected to perform the activities and duties identified in 42 U.S.C. § 18031 (i) in the Commonwealth. "Navigator" does not include an individual or entity licensed as an agent under Chapter 18 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-1800/'>38.2-1800</a> et seq.) of this title to sell, solicit, or negotiate contracts of insurance or annuity in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Other affordable care options" means the programs provided under the state plan for medical assistance services pursuant to pursuant to Title XIX of the Social Security Act, as amended, and the Family Access to Medical Insurance Security (FAMIS) Plan developed pursuant to Title XXI of the Social Security Act, as amended.</p><p>"Qualified dental plan" means a limited scope dental plan that has in effect a certification that the plan meets the criteria for certification described in § 1311(d)(2)(B)(ii) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, as amended.</p><p>"Qualified health plan" means a health benefit plan that has in effect a certification that the plan meets the criteria for certification described in § 1311(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, as amended.</p><p>"Secretary" means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.</p><p>2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0595'>595</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0791'>791</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0752'>752</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0769'>769</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0916'>916</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0917'>917</a>.</p>