# ยง 13.1-874 Resignation and removal of officers.

<p>A. An officer may resign at any time by delivering notice to the corporation. A resignation is effective when the notice is delivered unless the notice specifies a later effective time. If a resignation is made effective at a later time, the corporation may fill the pending vacancy before the effective time if the successor does not take office until the effective time.</p><p>B. A board of directors may remove any officer at any time with or without cause and any officer or assistant officer, if appointed by another officer, may likewise be removed by such officer. Election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create any contract rights in the officer or the corporation. An officer's removal does not affect such officer's contract rights, if any, with the corporation. An officer's resignation does not affect the corporation's contract rights, if any, with the officer.</p><p>C. Any person who has resigned as an officer of a corporation, or whose name is incorrectly on file with the Commission as an officer of a corporation, may file a statement to that effect with the Commission.</p><p>D. Upon the resignation or removal of an officer, the corporation may file an amended annual report with the Commission indicating the resignation or removal of the officer and the successor in office, if any.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 13.1-227; 1956, c. 428; 1985, c. 522; 1990, c. 282; 1991, c. 124; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>.</p>