# ยง 51.5-134 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Access services" means care coordination; care transitions; communication, referral, information, and assistance; options counseling; transportation; and assisted transportation.</p><p>"Aging services" means access services, Care Coordination for Elderly Virginians, caregiver services, client services, disease prevention and health promotion services, in-home services, legal assistance, nutrition services, and elder abuse prevention services that are supported with federal and state funds.</p><p>"Caregiver services" means counseling services, including individual counseling, support groups, and caregiver training; respite services, including institutional respite and direct respite services; and supplemental services.</p><p>"Client services" means emergency services, employment services pursuant to Title III of the Older Americans Act, 42 U.S.C. ยง 3001 et seq., as amended, health education and screening, long-term care coordinating activities, medication management, money management, public information and education, socialization and recreation, and volunteer programs.</p><p>"Economic need" means the need resulting from an income level at or below the poverty line.</p><p>"In-home services" means adult day care, checking, chore, homemaker, personal care, and residential repair and renovation services.</p><p>"Long-term care" means any service, care, or item, including a disease prevention and health promotion service, an in-home service, and a case management service that is (i) intended to assist individuals in coping with, and to the extent practicable in compensating for, a functional impairment in carrying out activities of daily living; (ii) furnished at home, in a community care setting, or in a long-term care facility; and (iii) not furnished to prevent, diagnose, treat, or cure a medical disease or condition.</p><p>"Long-term care ombudsman program" means the program established in Article 13 (ยง <a href='/vacode/51.5-182/'>51.5-182</a> et seq.).</p><p>"Nutrition services" means congregate and home-delivered nutrition services.</p><p>"Social need" means the need caused by noneconomic factors, including (i) physical and mental disabilities, which include developmental disabilities and human immunodeficiency virus; (ii) language barriers; and (iii) cultural, social, or geographic isolation, including that which is related to a history of discrimination for factors such as racial or ethnic status, gender identity, gender expression, or sexual orientation that can affect an individual's ability to perform normal daily tasks or threatens such individual's capacity to live independently.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507'>507</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0728'>728</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0299'>299</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0300'>300</a>.</p>