# ยง 46.2-2156 Solicitation, booking, registration by other persons prohibited; storage-in-transit.

<p>A. No person except a certificated household goods carrier, its parent, or its wholly owned subsidiary company, or other entity under complete ownership, or an employee of the above certificated carrier may solicit, book or register a shipment of household goods moving intrastate and only in the name of that certificated carrier.</p><p>B. No person or employee of a certificated or a noncertificated carrier may act as an employee, representative, or agent for another certificated carrier for purpose of soliciting, booking or registering an intrastate shipment except as provided in subsection A of this section. No person or employee of a certificated carrier who solicits, books or registers intrastate shipments may be employed by a noncertificated carrier.</p><p>C. A certificated household goods carrier may utilize the services of another certificated household goods carrier or a permitted property carrier that has complied with the minimum cargo insurance requirements of this chapter for storage and final delivery on storage-in-transit shipments at destination. A property carrier who does not hold a household goods certificate of fitness is prohibited from delivering a shipment for a greater distance than thirty road miles from the warehouse. The shipment must move on the bill of lading of the originating certificated household goods carrier with the delivering certificated household goods carrier or property carrier shown on the bill of lading. The legal liability of the shipment remains the responsibility of the originating certificated household goods carrier.</p><p>D. A household goods carrier may interchange or interline shipments with any other certificated household goods carrier provided both carriers hold proper authority to transport the shipment from origin to destination. The shipment must move on the bill of lading of the originating certificated household goods carrier with the delivering certificated household goods carrier shown on the bill of lading. The legal liability of the shipment remains the responsibility of the originating certificated household goods carrier.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596'>596</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0889'>889</a>.</p>