# ยง 15.2-2613 Form and manner of execution; signature of person ceasing to be officer.

<p>The governing body shall determine the form and the manner of execution of bonds. Any bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter, and any bonds previously or hereafter authorized to be issued by any locality under the provisions of any general or special law, if so authorized by the governing body of the locality, may bear or be executed with the facsimile signature of any official authorized to sign or execute them. If any law provides for the sealing of bonds with the official or corporate seal of the locality or of its governing body, a facsimile of the seal may be imprinted on the bonds, if so authorized by the governing body of the locality, and it will not be necessary in such case to impress the seal physically on the bonds.</p><p>In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature appears on any bonds ceases to be such officer before the delivery of the bonds, the signature or facsimile will nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if the officer had remained in office until the delivery. Any bond may bear the facsimile signature of, or may be signed by, the person who at the actual time of the execution of the bond is the proper officer to sign the bond although at the date of the bond the person may not have been such officer.</p><p>When all signatures on bonds are facsimiles, the bonds must be authenticated by an agent appointed by the governing body of the locality issuing the bonds or in such manner as the governing body may provide.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-666.42; 1958, c. 640; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-201; 1983, c. 607; 1991, c. 668, ยง 15.1-227.15; 1997, c. 587.</p>