# ยง 10.1-2009 Powers and duties of Board.

<p>A. The Board is hereby authorized:</p><p>1. To manage, control, maintain and operate the Museum and to provide for the erection, care and preservation of all property belonging to the Museum;</p><p>2. To appoint the Director of the Museum, and prescribe his duties and salary and to employ such deputies and assistants as may be required;</p><p>3. To prescribe rules and regulations for the operation of the Museum, including, but not limited to, the kinds and types of research, instruction and exhibits, and the making of plans for expansion of the Museum;</p><p>4. To employ planning consultants and architects in relation to expansion of the Museum;</p><p>5. To acquire by purchase, gift, loan or otherwise land necessary for establishment and expansion of the Museum, and exhibits and displays;</p><p>6. To enter into agreements with institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth to work cooperatively on research projects of mutual interest and benefit;</p><p>7. To establish a foundation to assist in fund raising efforts to supplement the state funds provided to the Museum;</p><p>8. To enter into contracts for construction of physical facilities;</p><p>9. To enter into contracts approved by the Attorney General to further the purposes of the Museum;</p><p>10. To adopt a seal, flag or other emblems; and</p><p>11. To charge for admission to the Museum, if deemed appropriate.</p><p>B. With prior annual written approval of the Governor, the Board of Trustees of the Virginia Museum of Natural History may supplement the salary of the Director of the Museum from nonstate funds. In approving a supplement, the Governor may be guided by criteria that provide a reasonable limit on the total additional income of the Director. The criteria may include, but need not be limited to, a consideration of the salaries paid to similar officials at comparable museums of other states. The Board shall report approved supplements to the Department of Human Resource Management for retention in its records.</p><p>1988, cc. 707, 891; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0870'>870</a>.</p>