# § 8.9A-620 Acceptance of collateral in full or partial satisfaction of obligation; compulsory disposition of collateral.

<p>(a) Conditions to acceptance in satisfaction. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (g), a secured party may accept collateral in full or partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if:</p><p>(1) the debtor consents to the acceptance under subsection (c);</p><p>(2) the secured party does not receive, within the time set forth in subsection (d), a notification of objection to the proposal authenticated by:</p><p>(A) a person to which the secured party was required to send a proposal under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-621/'>8.9A-621</a>; or</p><p>(B) any other person, other than the debtor, holding an interest in the collateral subordinate to the security interest that is the subject of the proposal;</p><p>(3) subsection (e) does not require the secured party to dispose of the collateral or the debtor waives the requirement pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-624/'>8.9A-624</a>.</p><p>(b) Purported acceptance ineffective. A purported or apparent acceptance of collateral under this section is ineffective unless:</p><p>(1) the secured party consents to the acceptance in an authenticated record or sends a proposal to the debtor; and</p><p>(2) the conditions of subsection (a) are met.</p><p>(c) Debtor's consent. For purposes of this section:</p><p>(1) a debtor consents to an acceptance of collateral in partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if the debtor agrees to the terms of the acceptance in a record authenticated after default; and</p><p>(2) a debtor consents to an acceptance of collateral in full satisfaction of the obligation it secures only if the debtor agrees to the terms of the acceptance in a record authenticated after default or the secured party:</p><p>(A) sends to the debtor after default a proposal that is unconditional or subject only to a condition that collateral not in the possession of the secured party be preserved or maintained;</p><p>(B) in the proposal, proposes to accept collateral in full satisfaction of the obligation it secures; and</p><p>(C) does not receive a notification of objection authenticated by the debtor within twenty days after the proposal is sent.</p><p>(d) Effectiveness of notification. To be effective under subsection (a) (2), a notification of objection must be received by the secured party:</p><p>(1) in the case of a person to which the proposal was sent pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-621/'>8.9A-621</a>, within twenty days after notification was sent to that person; and</p><p>(2) in other cases:</p><p>(A) within twenty days after the last notification was sent pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-621/'>8.9A-621</a>; or</p><p>(B) if a notification was not sent, before the debtor consents to the acceptance under subsection (c).</p><p>(e) Mandatory disposition of consumer goods.</p><p>A secured party that has taken possession of collateral shall dispose of the collateral pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-610/'>8.9A-610</a> within the time specified in subsection (f) if:</p><p>(1) sixty percent of the cash price has been paid in the case of a purchase-money security interest in consumer goods; or</p><p>(2) sixty percent of the principal amount of the obligation secured has been paid in the case of a nonpurchase-money security interest in consumer goods.</p><p>(f) Compliance with mandatory disposition requirement. To comply with subsection (e), the secured party shall dispose of the collateral:</p><p>(1) within ninety days after taking possession; or</p><p>(2) within any longer period to which the debtor and all secondary obligors have agreed in an agreement to that effect entered into and authenticated after default.</p><p>(g) No partial satisfaction in consumer transaction. In a consumer transaction, a secured party may not accept collateral in partial satisfaction of the obligation it secures.</p><p>Code 1950, § 55-93; 1964, cc. 219, 410, § 8.9-505; 1973, c. 509; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>.</p>