# ยง 22.1-274.6 Seizure management and action plan; training.

<p>A. The parent or guardian of a student with a diagnosed seizure disorder may submit to the local school division a seizure management and action plan developed by the student's treating physician for review by school division employees with whom the student has regular contact. The seizure management and action plan shall (i) identify the health care services the student may receive at school or while participating in a school activity, (ii) identify seizure-related medication prescribed to the student that must be administered in the event of a seizure, (iii) evaluate the student's ability to manage and understand his seizure disorder, and (iv) be signed by the student's parent or guardian, the student's treating physician, and the school nurse. Each such seizure management and action plan shall state that (a) such plan is separate from any individualized education program (IEP) or Section 504 Plan that is in place for the student and (b) nothing in such plan shall be construed to abrogate any provision of any IEP or Section 504 Plan that is in place for the student.</p><p>B. Each local school division shall require all school nurses employed by the division to complete, on a biennial basis, a Board of Education-approved online course of instruction for school nurses regarding treating students with seizures and seizure disorders that includes information about seizure recognition and related first aid. Approved training programs shall be fully consistent with training programs and guidelines developed by the Epilepsy Foundation of America and any successor organization.</p><p>C. Each local school division shall require all employees whose duties include regular contact with students to complete, on a biennial basis, a Board of Education-approved online course of instruction for school employees regarding treating students with seizures and seizure disorders that includes information about seizure recognition and related first aid. Approved training programs shall be fully consistent with training programs and guidelines developed by the Epilepsy Foundation of America and any successor organization.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0514'>514</a>.</p>