# § 22.1-38.1 Provisions for school board where division consolidated as result of certain governmental consolidations.

<p>A. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-38/'>22.1-38</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-57/'>22.1-57</a> or any other statutory provision, in any consolidation of school divisions comprised of single cities and single counties, which consolidation constitutes a part of a governmental consolidation resulting in the formation of a consolidated county and a tier-city, the consolidation agreement may provide as follows:</p><p>1. The effective date for consolidation of school divisions may be prior or subsequent to the effective date for general governmental consolidation.</p><p>2. Initial members of the consolidated school board selection committee may be selected as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-35/'>22.1-35</a> from the consolidating divisions at any time after certification by the appropriate electoral boards of approval by referendum of the consolidation plan.</p><p>3. Initial members of the consolidated school board may be selected to assume office at any agreed time prior to the effective date for consolidation of school divisions, only for such of the following limited purposes as may be provided by the consolidation agreement or plan:</p><p>a. Organization of itself and election of one of its members as chairman.</p><p>b. Preparation and approval of an initial budget applicable to the newly consolidated school divisions.</p><p>c. Preparation of job descriptions, pay ranges and qualifications for each position in the consolidated school division.</p><p>d. Hiring of individuals to hold each position in the consolidated school division.</p><p>e. Designation of school attendance zones.</p><p>f. Allocation of office space and furniture to accommodate the administrative staff of the consolidated school division.</p><p>g. Preparation of seniority lists and reductions in force policy.</p><p>h. Approval of initial curriculum, grading systems, and all such forms of records as may be required.</p><p>i. Adoption of a transportation plan for the consolidated school division.</p><p>B. Any member of a school board of a consolidating school division may be appointed to the consolidated school board, and for the limited time period as provided in the consolidation agreement may hold both offices.</p><p>C. Upon the effective date of consolidation of school divisions, all school board members shall assume full powers, duties, rights and responsibilities of their offices.</p><p>1984, c. 695.</p>