# § 38.2-2003 Rate filings by insurer; supporting information.

<p>A. Each insurer writing in this Commonwealth a class of insurance to which this chapter applies shall file with the Commission every manual of classifications, minimum rate, class rate, rating schedule, rating plan, rating rule, and every modification of any of the foregoing that it proposes to use. Every filing shall indicate the character and extent of coverage contemplated. When a filing is not accompanied by the information upon which the insurer supports the filing, and the Commission does not have sufficient information to determine whether the filing meets the requirements of this chapter, the Commission may require the insurer to furnish the information upon which it supports the filing. A filing and any supporting information shall be a public record. Upon filing any rate to which this chapter is applicable, the insurer shall give notice to the Division of Consumer Counsel of the Office of the Attorney General that such rate has been filed with the Commission and such insurer shall so certify to the Commission in its rate filing. For the purposes of this section, a group or fleet of insurers operating under the same general management may be considered an insurer.</p><p>B. Each insurer shall submit with each rate filing so much of the following information as deemed appropriate by the Commission:</p><p>1. Number of exposures;</p><p>2. Direct premiums written;</p><p>3. Direct premiums earned;</p><p>4. Direct losses paid identified by such period as the Commission may require;</p><p>5. Number of claims paid;</p><p>6. Direct losses incurred during the year, direct losses incurred during the year which occurred and were paid during the year, and direct losses incurred during the year which were reported during the year but were not yet paid;</p><p>7. Any loss development factor used and supporting data thereon;</p><p>8. Number of claims unpaid;</p><p>9. Loss adjustment expenses paid identified by such period as the Commission may require;</p><p>10. Loss adjustment expenses incurred during the year, loss adjustment expenses incurred during the year for losses which occurred and were paid during the year, and loss adjustment expenses incurred during the year for losses which were reported during the year but were not yet paid;</p><p>11. Other expenses incurred, separately by category of expense, excluding loss adjustment expenses;</p><p>12. Investment income on assets related to reserve and allocated surplus accounts;</p><p>13. Total return on allocated surplus;</p><p>14. Any loss trend factor used and supporting data thereon;</p><p>15. Any expense trend factor used and supporting data thereon; and</p><p>16. Such other information as may be required by rule of the Commission, including statewide rate information presented separately for Virginia and each state wherein the insurer writes the line, subline or rating classification for which the rate filing is made and which the Commission deems necessary for its consideration.</p><p>C. Where actual experience does not exist or is not credible, the Commission may allow the use of estimates for the information required by subdivisions 1 through 15 of subsection B of this section and may require the insurer to submit such information as the Commission deems necessary to support such estimates.</p><p>D. The Commission shall develop uniform statements or formats specifying the information categories specified in this section. Such statements or formats shall be utilized by all insurers in all rate filings.</p><p>E. In determining the appropriateness of rates for credit involuntary unemployment insurance and credit property insurance, the Commission may not approve any rate that is calculated based upon loss experience producing a loss ratio of less than forty percent on and after January 1, 2001, forty-five percent on and after January 1, 2003, and fifty percent on and after January 1, 2005. For the purposes of this subsection, loss experience includes: paid losses, paid loss adjustment expense, any change in case reserves, change in incurred but not reported losses, and any special considerations for catastrophe or comprehensive coverage.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 38-253.26, 38-253.72; 1950, p. 381; 1952, c. 317, § 38.1-241; 1972, c. 836; 1973, c. 504; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 697; 1988, c. 189; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0526'>526</a>.</p>