# ยง 52-34.12 Activation of Critically Missing Adult Alert Program upon an incident of a critically missing adult.

<p>A. Upon receipt of a notice of a critically missing adult from a law-enforcement agency, the Virginia State Police shall confirm the accuracy of the information and provide assistance in the activation of the Critically Missing Adult Alert Program as the investigation dictates.</p><p>B. Critically Missing Adult Alerts may be local, regional, or statewide. The initial decision to make a local Critically Missing Adult Alert shall be at the discretion of the local law-enforcement official. Prior to making a local Critically Missing Adult Alert, the local law-enforcement official shall confer with the Virginia State Police and provide information regarding the critically missing adult to the Virginia State Police. The decision to make a regional or statewide Critically Missing Adult Alert shall be at the discretion of the Virginia State Police.</p><p>C. The Critically Missing Adult Alert shall include the critically missing adult information as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-1718.2/'>15.2-1718.2</a> and any other such information as the law-enforcement agency deems appropriate that will assist in the safe recovery of the critically missing adult.</p><p>D. The Critically Missing Adult Alert shall be cancelled under the terms of the Critically Missing Adult Alert Agreement. Any local law-enforcement agency that locates a critically missing adult who is the subject of an alert shall notify the Virginia State Police immediately that the critically missing adult has been located.</p><p>2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0397'>397</a>.</p>