# § 55.1-1801 Applicability.

<p>A. This chapter applies to developments subject to a declaration initially recorded after January 1, 1959, associations incorporated or otherwise organized after such date, and all subdivisions created under the Subdivided Land Sales Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2300/'>55.1-2300</a> et seq.). For the purposes of this chapter, as used in the Subdivided Land Sales Act, the terms:</p><p>"Covenants," "deed restrictions," or "other recorded instruments" for the management, regulation, and control of a development are deemed to correspond with the term "declaration."</p><p>"Developer" is deemed to correspond with the term "declarant."</p><p>"Subdivision" is deemed to correspond with the term "development."</p><p>B. This chapter supersedes the Subdivided Land Sales Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2300/'>55.1-2300</a> et seq.), and no development shall be subject to the Subdivided Land Sales Act on or after July 1, 1998.</p><p>This chapter shall not be construed to affect the validity of any provision of any declaration recorded prior to July 1, 1998, provided, however, that this chapter shall be applicable to any development established prior to the enactment of the Subdivided Land Sales Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2300/'>55.1-2300</a> et seq.)(i) located in a county with an urban county executive form of government, (ii) containing 500 or more lots, (iii) each lot of which is located within the boundaries of a watershed improvement district established pursuant to Article 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/10.1-614/'>10.1-614</a> et seq.) of Chapter 6 of Title 10.1, and (iv) each lot of which is subject to substantially similar deed restrictions, which shall be considered a declaration under this chapter.</p><p>In addition, any development established prior to July 1, 1978, may specifically provide for the applicability of the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>C. This chapter shall not be construed to affect the validity of any provision of any prior declaration; however, to the extent that the declaration is silent, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. If any one lot in a development is subject to the provisions of this chapter, all lots in the development shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter notwithstanding the fact that such lots would otherwise be excluded from the provisions of this chapter. Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter, a declaration may specifically provide for the applicability of the provisions of this chapter. The granting of rights in this chapter shall not be construed to imply that such rights did not exist with respect to any development created in the Commonwealth before July 1, 1989.</p><p>D. This chapter shall not apply to the (i) provisions of documents of, (ii) operations of any association governing, or (iii) relationship of a member to any association governing condominiums created pursuant to the Condominium Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> et seq.), cooperatives created pursuant to the Virginia Real Estate Cooperative Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2100/'>55.1-2100</a> et seq.), time-shares created pursuant to the Virginia Real Estate Time-Share Act (§ <a href='/vacode/55.1-2200/'>55.1-2200</a> et seq.), or membership campgrounds created pursuant to the Virginia Membership Camping Act (§ <a href='/vacode/59.1-311/'>59.1-311</a> et seq.). This chapter shall not apply to any nonstock, nonprofit, taxable corporation with nonmandatory membership which, as its primary function, makes available golf, ski, and other recreational facilities both to its members and to the general public.</p><p>1989, c. 679, § 55-508; 1991, c. 667; 1992, c. 677; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0032'>32</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0623'>623</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0422'>422</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0668'>668</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0645'>645</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>