# § 15.2-5133 Trust agreement; bond resolution.

<p>In the discretion of the authority, any revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter may be secured by a trust agreement by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside the Commonwealth. The resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or the trust agreement may pledge or assign the revenues to be received. The resolution or trust agreement shall not convey or mortgage any stormwater control system or water or waste system or any part thereof, or any improvement financed pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5158/'>15.2-5158</a> which is, or will be, dedicated to a public entity other than the authority financing such improvement. However, a bond issued by a community development authority pursuant to subdivision A 2 of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5158/'>15.2-5158</a> may pledge or assign a mortgage in other real property or improvements not otherwise proscribed hereunder and may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law. Such provisions may include covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition, construction, improvement, maintenance, operation, repair and insurance of the system or systems for which such bonds are issued and provisions for the custody, safeguarding and application of all moneys and for the employment of consulting engineers in connection with such construction, reconstruction, or operation. The resolution or trust agreement may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders, and may restrict the individual right of action by bondholders as is customary in trust agreements or trust indentures securing bonds or debentures of corporations. The resolution or trust agreement may also contain such other provisions as the authority deems reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the authority may provide for the payment of the proceeds of the sale of the bonds and its revenues to such officer, board or depositary as it may designate for the custody thereof, and for the method of disbursement thereof, with such safeguards and restrictions as it may determine. All expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of the resolution or trust agreement may be treated as part of the cost of operation.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-764.21; 1950, p. 1323; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-1259; 1993, c. 850; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0527'>527</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0573'>573</a>, 587; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0473'>473</a>.</p>