# § 12.1-17 Deposits of funds; means of payment; dishonored payments; receipts for payment.

<p>A. All funds received by the Commission in the course of its duties shall be paid promptly to the State Treasurer or deposited promptly in banks designated by the State Treasurer to the credit of the State Treasurer.</p><p>B. The Commission may accept payment of any amount due by any means acceptable to the Commission, including by check, credit card, debit card, and electronic funds transfer. The Commission may add to any amount due a sum, not to exceed the amount charged to the Commission, for acceptance of any payment by a means that incurs a charge to the Commission, or it may absorb a portion or all of the cost of such charge.</p><p>C. If any check or other means of payment is dishonored, declined, refused, reversed, charged back to the Commission, returned to the Commission unpaid, or otherwise rejected for any reason by a financial institution or other third party, the amount of the check or other means of payment shall be charged to the person on whose account it was received and his liability and that of his sureties shall be as if payment had never been made. A penalty of $35 or the amount of any cost incurred by the Commission, whichever is greater, shall be added to such amount. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty provided by law, except the penalty imposed by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-12/'>58.1-12</a> shall not apply. Any penalties received by the Commission under this section shall be set aside and paid into the special fund (i) created under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-775.1/'>13.1-775.1</a>, in the case of penalties received by the clerk's office, or (ii) into which the payment that caused the penalty was to be deposited, in the case of penalties otherwise received by the Commission.</p><p>D. The Commission shall issue receipts for all currency received for payments in the course of its duties.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 12-24, 12-25; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 157; 1986, c. 15; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0238'>238</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0719'>719</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0021'>21</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0486'>486</a>.</p>