# ยง 33.2-2001 Creation of district.

<p>A. A district may be created in a single locality or in two or more contiguous localities. If created in a single locality, a district shall be created by a resolution of the local governing body. If created in two or more contiguous localities, a district shall be created by the resolutions of each of the local governing bodies. Any such resolution shall be considered only upon the petition, to each local governing body of the locality in which the proposed district is to be located, of the owners of at least 51 percent of either the land area or the assessed value of land in each locality that (i) is within the boundaries of the proposed district and (ii) has been zoned for commercial or industrial use or is used for such purposes. Any proposed district within a county or counties may include any land within a town or towns within the boundaries of such county or counties.</p><p>B. The petition to the local governing body or bodies shall:</p><p>1. Set forth the name and describe the boundaries of the proposed district;</p><p>2. Describe the transportation improvements proposed within the district;</p><p>3. Propose a plan for providing such transportation improvements within the district and describe specific terms and conditions with respect to all commercial and industrial zoning classifications and uses, densities, and criteria related thereto which the petitioners request for the proposed district;</p><p>4. Describe the benefits that can be expected from the provision of such transportation improvements within the district; and</p><p>5. Request the local governing body or bodies to establish the proposed district for the purposes set forth in the petition.</p><p>C. Upon the filing of such a petition, each local governing body shall fix a day for a hearing on the question of whether the proposed district shall be created. The hearing shall consider whether the residents and owners of real property within the proposed district would benefit from the establishment of the proposed district. All interested persons who either reside in or own taxable real property within the proposed district shall have the right to appear and show cause why any property or properties should not be included in the proposed district. If real property within a town is included in the proposed district, the governing body shall deliver a copy of the petition and notice of the public hearing to the town council at least 30 days prior to the public hearing, and the town council may by resolution determine if it wishes such property located within the town to be included within the proposed district and shall deliver a copy of any such resolution to the local governing body at the public hearing required by this section. Such resolution shall be binding upon the local governing body with respect to the inclusion or exclusion of such properties within the proposed district. The petition shall comply with the provisions of this section with respect to minimum acreage or assessed valuation. Notice of the hearing shall be given by publication once a week for three consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the locality. At least 10 days shall intervene between the third publication and the date set for the hearing.</p><p>D. If each local governing body finds the creation of the proposed district would be in furtherance of the locality's comprehensive plan for the development of the area, in the best interests of the residents and owners of real property within the proposed district, and in furtherance of the public health, safety, and welfare, then each local governing body may pass a resolution, which shall be reasonably consistent with the petition, creating the district and providing for the appointment of an advisory board in accordance with this chapter. The resolution shall provide a description with specific terms and conditions of all commercial and industrial zoning classifications that shall be in force in the district upon its creation, together with any related criteria and a term of years, not to exceed 20 years, as to which each zoning classification and each related criterion set forth therein shall remain in force within the district without elimination, reduction, or restriction, except (i) upon the written request or approval of the owner of any property affected by a change or (ii) as specifically required to comply with state or federal law.</p><p>Each resolution creating a district shall also provide (a) that the district shall expire 35 years from the date upon which the resolution is passed or (b) that the district shall expire when the district is abolished in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-2014/'>33.2-2014</a>. After the public hearing, each local governing body shall deliver a certified copy of its proposed resolution creating the district to the petitioning landowners or their attorneys-in-fact. Any petitioning landowner may then withdraw his signature on the petition, in writing, at any time prior to the vote of the local governing body. In the case where any signatures on the petition are withdrawn, the local governing body may pass the proposed resolution only upon certification that the petition continues to meet the provisions of this section. After all local governing bodies have adopted resolutions creating the district, the district shall be established and the name of the district shall be "The __________ Transportation Improvement District."</p><p>1993, c. 395, ยง 33.1-410; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>