# § 45.2-1029  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits.

<p>A. For the purpose of this section:</p><p>"Board" means the State Water Control Board.</p><p>"Industrial wastes" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.3/'>62.1-44.3</a>.</p><p>"NPDES" means the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.</p><p>"Other wastes" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.3/'>62.1-44.3</a>.</p><p>"Sewage" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.3/'>62.1-44.3</a>.</p><p>B. The authority to issue, amend, revoke, and enforce National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permits under the State Water Control Law (§ <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.2/'>62.1-44.2</a> et seq.) for the discharge of sewage, industrial wastes, and other wastes from coal surface mining operations, to the extent delegated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and required under the federal Clean Water Act, P.L. 92-500, as amended, is vested solely in the Director, notwithstanding any provision of law contained in Title 62.1, except as provided in this section. For the purpose of enforcement under this section, the provisions of §§ <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.31/'>62.1-44.31</a> and <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.32/'>62.1-44.32</a> shall apply to permits, orders, and regulations issued by the Director in accordance with this section.</p><p>C. The Director shall transmit to the State Water Control Board a copy of each application for an NPDES permit received by the Director and provide written notice to the Board of every action related to the consideration of such permit application.</p><p>D. Prior to the issuance or reissuance of a permit, each applicant shall submit an application on a form approved by the Director and a fee of $300 for each discharge outfall point under such permit. If an application is approved, the permittee shall, on the anniversary of the permit approval for each year of the permit term, submit $300 for each discharge outfall point under such permit. Each permit shall remain valid for five years. All fees provided for under this section shall be in addition to any other fees levied pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>E. No NPDES permit shall be issued if, within 30 days of the date of the transmittal of the complete application and the proposed NPDES permit, the Board objects in writing to the issuance of such permit. Whenever the Board objects to the issuance of such permit under this section, such written objection shall contain a statement of the reasons for such objection and the effluent limitations and conditions that such permit would include if it were issued by the Board.</p><p>F. An applicant who is aggrieved by an objection made under subsection E has the right to a hearing before the Board pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.25/'>62.1-44.25</a>. If the Board withdraws in writing its objection to the issuance of a certificate, the Director may issue the permit. Any applicant aggrieved by a final decision of the Board made pursuant to this subsection has the right to judicial review in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>G. Whenever, on the basis of any information available to it, the Board finds that any person is in violation of any condition or limitation contained in a NPDES permit issued by the Director, it shall notify the person allegedly in violation and the Director. If after the thirtieth day following notification by the Board, the Director has not commenced appropriate enforcement action, the Board may take appropriate enforcement action pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.15/'>62.1-44.15</a>, <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.23/'>62.1-44.23</a>, and <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.32/'>62.1-44.32</a>.</p><p>H. The Director shall adopt regulations deemed necessary for the issuance, administration, monitoring, and enforcement of NPDES permits for coal surface mining operations.</p><p>I. The Director, by examining the available and relevant data, shall determine whether a discharge could cause or contribute to an instream excursion above the narrative or numeric criteria of a water quality standard.</p><p>J. If a total maximum daily load (TMDL) has been established by the Board for the receiving water body, then there shall be consideration of the TMDL in the reasonable potential determination as to whether a discharge could cause or contribute to an instream excursion above the narrative or numeric criteria of a water quality standard. If the receiving water body does not have a TMDL established, the Director may consider biological monitoring, chemical monitoring, and whole effluent toxicity testing to determine whether a discharge could cause or contribute to an instream excursion above the narrative or numeric criteria of a water quality standard. The Director may require whole effluent toxicity testing if he determines that the discharge adversely affects the biological condition of the receiving water body.</p><p>1979, c. 290, § 45.1-254; 1986, c. 615; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0275'>275</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0252'>252</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0290'>290</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>