# ยง 59.1-296.2:1 Prepayment contracts; prohibited practices; relocation; refund.

<p>A. No health club shall sell a health club contract on a prepayment basis without disclosing in the contract the date on which the facility shall open. The opening date shall not be later than 12 months from the signing of the contract.</p><p>B. No health club shall close or relocate any facility without first giving notice to the Commissioner and conspicuously posting a notice both within and outside each entrance to the facility being closed or relocated of the closing or relocation date. Such notice shall be provided at least 30 days prior to the closing or relocation date. If a relocation is to occur, the Commissioner and the facility's members shall be provided with the address of the specific new facility at the time of this notice.</p><p>C. No health club shall knowingly and willfully make any false statement in any registration application, statement, report, or other disclosure required by this chapter.</p><p>D. No health club shall refuse or fail, after notice from the Commissioner, to produce for the Commissioner's review any of the health club's books or records required to be maintained by this chapter.</p><p>E. Unless it so discloses fully in 10-point bold-faced type or larger on the face of each health club contract, no health club shall sell any health club contract if any owner of the health club, regardless of the extent of his ownership, previously owned in whole or in part a health club that closed for business any facility and failed to:</p><p>1. Refund all moneys due to holders of health club contracts; or</p><p>2. Provide comparable alternate facilities with another health club that agreed in writing to honor all provisions of the health club contracts or at another facility operated by the originally contracting health club.</p><p>F. No health club that has failed to provide the Commissioner the appropriate surety pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-306/'>59.1-306</a> shall sell a health club contract unless that contract contains a statement that reads as follows: "This club is not permitted, pursuant to the Virginia Health Club Act, to accept any initiation fee in excess of $125 or any payment for more than the prorated monthly fee for the month when the contract is initially executed plus one full month in advance."</p><p>Such disclosure shall be printed in 10-point bold-faced type or larger on the face of each contract.</p><p>1990, cc. 392, 433; 1993, c. 686; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0344'>344</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0988'>988</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0439'>439</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0459'>459</a>.</p>