# ยง 10.1-1444 Public hearing on draft certification of site approval.

<p>A. The Board shall conduct a public hearing on the draft certification not less than fifteen nor more than thirty days after the first publication of notice. A quorum of the Board shall be present. The hearing shall be conducted in the host community.</p><p>B. Notice of the hearing shall be made at the applicant's expense and in the manner provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1447/'>10.1-1447</a>. It shall include:</p><p>1. A brief description of the terms and conditions of the draft certification;</p><p>2. Information describing the date, time, place and purpose of the hearing;</p><p>3. The name, address and telephone number of an official designated by the Board from whom interested persons may obtain access to documents and information concerning the proposed facility and the draft application;</p><p>4. A brief description of the rules and procedures to be followed at the hearing and the time for receiving comments; and</p><p>5. The name, address and telephone number of an official designated by the Board to receive written comments on the draft certification.</p><p>C. The Board shall designate a person to act as hearing officer for the receipt of comments and testimony at the public hearing. The hearing officer shall conduct the hearing in an expeditious and orderly fashion, according to such rules and procedures as the Board shall prescribe.</p><p>D. A transcript of the hearing shall be made and shall be incorporated into the hearing record.</p><p>E. Within fifteen days after the close of the hearing, the hearing officer shall deliver a copy of the hearing record to each member of the Board. The hearing officer may prepare a summary to accompany the record, and this summary shall become part of the record.</p><p>1986, c. 492, ยง 10-300; 1988, c. 891.</p>