# ยง 10.1-1248 Fees; Environmental Covenants Fund established.

<p>A. The Department shall establish fees, to be paid by the fee simple owner of the real property subject to the covenant, which shall be assessed for the purpose of funding the costs of administering the provisions of this chapter and shall be used solely for the purposes specified in this chapter.</p><p>B. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Environmental Covenants Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1802/'>2.2-1802</a>, all moneys collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes described in subsection A. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by Director. The Fund shall be exempt from statewide indirect costs charged and collected by the Department of Accounts.</p><p>2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>.</p>