# ยง 8.9A-334 Priority of security interests in fixtures and crops.

<p>(a) Security interest in fixtures under this title. A security interest under this title may be created in goods that are fixtures or may continue in goods that become fixtures. A security interest does not exist under this title in ordinary building materials incorporated into an improvement on land.</p><p>(b) Security interest in fixtures under real property law. This title does not prevent creation of an encumbrance upon fixtures under real property law.</p><p>(c) General rule; subordination of security interest in fixtures. In cases not governed by subsections (d) through (h), a security interest in fixtures is subordinate to a conflicting interest of an encumbrancer or owner of the related real property other than the debtor.</p><p>(d) Fixtures purchase-money priority. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (h), a perfected security interest in fixtures has priority over a conflicting interest of an encumbrancer or owner of the real property if the debtor has an interest of record in or is in possession of the real property and:</p><p>(1) the security interest is a purchase-money security interest;</p><p>(2) the interest of the encumbrancer or owner arises before the goods become fixtures; and</p><p>(3) the security interest is perfected by a fixture filing before the goods become fixtures or within twenty days thereafter.</p><p>(e) Priority of security interest in fixtures over interests in real property. A perfected security interest in fixtures has priority over a conflicting interest of an encumbrancer or owner of the real property if:</p><p>(1) the debtor has an interest of record in the real property or is in possession of the real property and the security interest:</p><p>(A) is perfected by a fixture filing before the interest of the encumbrancer or owner is of record; and</p><p>(B) has priority over any conflicting interest of a predecessor in title of the encumbrancer or owner;</p><p>(2) before the goods become fixtures, the security interest is perfected by any method permitted by this title and the fixtures are readily removable:</p><p>(A) factory or office machines;</p><p>(B) equipment that is not primarily used or leased for use in the operation of the real property; or</p><p>(C) replacements of domestic appliances that are consumer goods;</p><p>(3) the conflicting interest is a lien on the real property obtained by legal or equitable proceedings after the security interest was perfected by any method permitted by this title; or</p><p>(4) the security interest is:</p><p>(A) created in a manufactured home in a manufactured-home transaction; and</p><p>(B) perfected pursuant to a statute described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-311/'>8.9A-311</a> (a) (2).</p><p>(f) Priority based on consent, disclaimer, or right to remove. A security interest in fixtures, whether or not perfected, has priority over a conflicting interest of an encumbrancer or owner of the real property if:</p><p>(1) the encumbrancer or owner has, in an authenticated record, consented to the security interest or disclaimed an interest in the goods as fixtures; or</p><p>(2) the debtor has a right to remove the goods as against the encumbrancer or owner.</p><p>(g) Continuation of subdivision (f) (2) priority. The priority of the security interest under subdivision (f) (2) continues for a reasonable time if the debtor's right to remove the goods as against the encumbrancer or owner terminates.</p><p>(h) Priority of construction mortgage. A mortgage is a construction mortgage to the extent that it secures an obligation incurred for the construction of an improvement on land, including the acquisition cost of the land, if a recorded record of the mortgage so indicates. Except as otherwise provided in subsections (e) and (f), a security interest in fixtures is subordinate to a construction mortgage if a record of the mortgage is recorded before the goods become fixtures and the goods become fixtures before the completion of the construction. A mortgage has this priority to the same extent as a construction mortgage to the extent that it is given to refinance a construction mortgage.</p><p>(i) Priority of security interest in crops. A perfected security interest in crops growing on real property has priority over a conflicting interest of an encumbrancer or owner of the real property if the debtor has an interest of record in or is in possession of the real property.</p><p>(j) Subsection (i) prevails. Subsection (i) prevails over any inconsistent provisions of the following statutes.</p><p>1964, c. 219, ยง 8.9-313; 1973, c. 509; 1983, c. 204; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>.</p>