# ยง 2.2-1501 Duties of Department.

<p>The Department shall have the following duties:</p><p>1. Development and direction of an integrated policy analysis, planning, and budgeting process within state government.</p><p>2. Review and approval of all sub-state district systems boundaries established or proposed for establishment by state agencies.</p><p>3. Formulation of an executive budget as required in this chapter. In implementing this provision, the Department shall utilize the resources and determine the manner of participation of any executive agency as the Governor may determine necessary to support an efficient and effective budget process notwithstanding any contrary provision of law. The budget shall include reports, or summaries thereof, provided by agencies of the Commonwealth pursuant to subsection E of ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-603/'>2.2-603</a>.</p><p>4. Conduct of policy analysis and program evaluation for the Governor.</p><p>5. Continuous review of the activities of state government focusing on budget requirements in the context of the goals and objectives determined by the Governor and the General Assembly and monitoring the progress of agencies in achieving goals and objectives.</p><p>6. Operation of a system of budgetary execution to ensure that agency activities are conducted within fund limitations provided in the appropriation act and in accordance with gubernatorial and legislative intent. The Department shall make an appropriate reduction in the appropriation and maximum employment level of any state agency or institution in the executive branch of government that reports involuntary separations from employment with the Commonwealth due to budget reductions, agency reorganizations, or workforce down-sizings, or voluntary separations from employment with the Commonwealth as provided in the second and third enactments of the act of the General Assembly creating the Workforce Transition Act of 1995 (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-3200/'>2.2-3200</a>). In the event an agency reduces its workforce through privatization of certain functions, the funds associated with such functions shall remain with the agency to the extent of the savings resulting from the privatization of such functions.</p><p>7. Development and operation of a system of standardized reports of program and financial performance for management.</p><p>8. Coordination of statistical data by reviewing, analyzing, monitoring, and evaluating statistical data developed and used by state agencies and by receiving statistical data from outside sources, such as research institutes and the federal government.</p><p>9. Assessment of the impact of federal funds on state government by reviewing, analyzing, monitoring, and evaluating the federal budget, as well as solicitations, applications, and awards for federal financial aid programs on behalf of state agencies.</p><p>10. Review and verify the accuracy of agency estimates of receipts from donations, gifts or other nongeneral fund revenue.</p><p>11. Development, coordination and implementation of a performance management system involving strategic planning, performance measurement, evaluation, and performance budgeting within state government. The Department shall ensure that information generated from these processes is useful for managing and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of state government operations, and is available to citizens and public officials. The Department shall submit annually on or before the second Tuesday in January to the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations a report that sets forth state agencies' strategic planning information and performance measurement results pursuant to this subdivision for the immediately preceding fiscal year.</p><p>12. Development, implementation and management of an Internet-based information technology system to ensure that citizens have access to performance information.</p><p>13. Development, implementation and management of an Internet-based information technology system to ensure that citizens have access to meeting minutes and information pertaining to the development of regulatory policies.</p><p>14. Development, coordination and management of a school efficiency review program.</p><p>1976, c. 760, ยง 2.1-391; 1979, cc. 672, 678; 1981, c. 315; 1984, c. 720; 1985, c. 114; 1989, c. 108; 1992, cc. 270, 381; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0152'>152</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0219'>219</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0811'>811</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0424'>424</a>; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0043'>43</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0580'>580</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0618'>618</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0900'>900</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0620'>620</a>.</p>