# ยง 15.2-2230.1 Public facilities study.

<p>In addition to reviewing the comprehensive plan, the planning commission may make a study of the public facilities, including existing facilities, which would be needed if the comprehensive plan is fully implemented. The study may include estimations of the annual prospective operating costs for such facilities and any revenues, including tax revenues, that may be generated by such facilities. For purposes of the study, public facilities may include but need not be limited to water and sewer lines and treatment plants, schools, public safety facilities, streets and highways. The planning commission may forward the study to the local governing body or any other local, regional, state or federal agency that the planning commission believes might benefit from its findings. The study shall also be forwarded to any utility companies or franchised cable operators that may be impacted by such public facilities. The utility companies, the franchised cable operators, and the locality shall cooperate and coordinate in the relocation of such utilities and cable lines as may be appropriate to avoid unnecessary delays in the construction of public facilities and capital projects by the affected localities, consistent with the service obligations of the utility companies and franchised cable operators. For purposes of this section, the term "utility company" shall not include a municipal utility that operates outside its locality's boundaries.</p><p>1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0609'>609</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0553'>553</a>.</p>