# ยง 2.2-2499.7 Powers and duties of the Board.

<p>The Cannabis Equity Reinvestment Board shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. Support persons, families, and communities historically and disproportionately targeted and affected by drug enforcement;</p><p>2. Develop and implement scholarship programs and educational and vocational resources for historically marginalized persons, including persons in foster care, who have been adversely impacted by substance use individually, in their families, or in their communities.</p><p>3. Develop and implement a program to award grants to support workforce development programs, mentoring programs, job training and placement services, apprenticeships, and reentry services that serve persons and communities historically and disproportionately targeted by drug enforcement.</p><p>4. Administer the Cannabis Equity Reinvestment Fund established pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2499.8/'>2.2-2499.8</a>.</p><p>5. Collaborate with the Board of Directors of the Virginia Cannabis Control Authority and the Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion as necessary to implement programs and provide recommendations in line with the purpose of this article.</p><p>6. Submit an annual report to the Governor and the General Assembly for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports. The chairman shall submit to the Governor and the General Assembly an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Council no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>7. Perform such other activities and functions as the Governor and General Assembly may direct.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>.</p>