# § 23.1-2202 Meetings; officers; committees.

<p>A. The board shall meet at the University at least once a year and at such other times and places as it determines. Special meetings of the board may be called by the rector or any three members. The secretary shall provide notice of any special meeting to each member.</p><p>B. Five members shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>C. The board shall appoint from its membership a rector to preside at its meetings and a vice-rector to preside at its meetings in the absence of the rector. The board may appoint a substitute pro tempore to preside in the absence of the rector and vice-rector. The rector and the vice-rector shall perform any additional duties as prescribed by the board. The terms of the rector and vice-rector shall be for two years, commencing and expiring as provided in the board's bylaws.</p><p>D. The board shall appoint a secretary who shall serve a term and perform duties as prescribed by the board.</p><p>E. Vacancies in the offices of rector, vice-rector, and secretary may be filled by the board for the unexpired term.</p><p>F. At every annual meeting of the board, the board shall appoint an executive committee for the transaction of business in the recess of the board, consisting of at least three and not more than seven members, to serve for the period of one year or until the next regular annual meeting.</p><p>Code 1919, §§ 809, 810, §§ 23-74, 23-75; 1966, c. 467; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0655'>655</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0567'>567</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0327'>327</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>