# ยง 53.1-95.10 Issuance of revenue bonds.

<p>An authority created pursuant to this article is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance, at one time or from time to time, of revenue bonds of the authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of the project. The principal of and the interest on such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds herein provided for such payment. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates as shall be fixed by the authority, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty years from their date or dates, as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority prior to the issuance of the bonds. The authority shall determine the form and the manner of execution of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the Commonwealth. In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature or such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article or any recitals in any bonds issued under the provisions of this article, all such bonds shall be deemed to be negotiable instruments under the laws of the Commonwealth. The bonds may be issued in coupon or in registered form, or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bonds as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest, for the reconversion into coupon bonds of any bonds registered as both principal and interest and for the interchange of registered and coupon bonds. The authority may sell such bonds in such manner, either at public or negotiated sale, or for such price, as it may determine will best effectuate the purposes of this article.</p><p>The proceeds of the bonds shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the project and shall be disbursed in such manner and under such restrictions, if any, as the authority may provide in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust agreement hereinafter mentioned securing the same. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issuance, by error of estimates or otherwise, shall be less than such cost, additional bonds may in like manner be issued to provide the amount of such deficit, and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust agreement securing the same, shall be deemed to be the same issue and shall be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed such cost, the surplus shall be deposited to the credit of the sinking fund for such bonds.</p><p>Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds shall have been executed and are available for delivery. The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or shall be destroyed or lost. Bonds may be issued under the provisions of this article without obtaining the consent of any department, division, commission, board, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth, and without any other proceedings or the happening of any conditions other than those proceedings or conditions which are specifically required by this article.</p><p>Revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this article shall not be deemed to constitute a pledge of the faith and credit of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision thereof. All such bonds shall contain a statement on their face substantially to the effect that neither the faith and credit of the Commonwealth nor the faith and credit of any county, city, town, or other subdivision of the Commonwealth is pledged to the payment of the principal of or the interest on such bonds. The issuance of revenue bonds under the provisions of this article shall not directly or indirectly or contingently obligate the Commonwealth or any county, city, town, or other subdivision of the Commonwealth to levy any taxes whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for their payment except from the funds pledged under the provisions of this article.</p><p>1990, c. 837.</p>