# § 22.1-337 Virginia representatives on Education Commission of the States; membership; terms; compensation and expenses; chairman's executive summary.

<p>In accordance with the Compact for Education of 1968, which established the Education Commission of the States, there shall be seven commissioners representing Virginia on the Education Commission of the States. The Virginia commissioners shall consist of one member of the House of Delegates, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; one member of the Senate, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; four nonlegislative citizen members, of whom one shall be the Superintendent of Public Instruction, to be appointed by the Governor; and the Governor. The commissioners representing Virginia shall by virtue of their training, experience, knowledge, or affiliations, collectively reflect the broad interests of state government, the state's system of education, public and higher education, nonprofessional and professional public and nonpublic educational leadership.</p> <p>Legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. All members may be reappointed. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be made for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p> <p>The commissioners shall serve without compensation. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. The costs of expenses of the legislative commissioners incurred in the performance of their duties shall be paid from appropriations to the Virginia Commission on Intergovernmental Cooperation for the attendance of conferences. The costs of expenses of nonlegislative citizen commissioners incurred in the performance of their duties shall be paid from such funds as may be provided for this purpose in the appropriations act.</p> <p>The chairman of the Commissioners shall submit to the Governor and the General Assembly an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Commissioners no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>Code 1950, § 22-346; 1968, c. 564; 1973, c. 524; 1980, c. 559; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0885'>885</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>.</p>