# ยง 54.1-1120 Recovery from Fund generally.

<p>A. The claimant shall be (i) an individual whose contract with the regulant involved contracting for the claimant's residence located in the Commonwealth or (ii) a property owners' association as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1800/'>55.1-1800</a> whose contract with the regulant involved contracting for improvements to the common areas owned by the association.</p><p>The claimant shall not himself be (a) an employee of such judgment debtor, (b) a vendor of such judgment debtor, (c) another licensee, (d) the spouse or child of such judgment debtor or the employee of such spouse or child, or (e) a financial or lending institution or any person whose business involves the construction or development of real property.</p><p>B. Whenever any person is awarded a judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Commonwealth of Virginia against any individual or entity which involves improper or dishonest conduct occurring (i) during a period when such individual or entity was a regulant and (ii) in connection with a transaction involving contracting, the claimant may file a verified claim with the Director to obtain a directive ordering payment from the Fund of the amount unpaid upon the judgment, subject to the following conditions:</p><p>1. If any action is instituted against a regulant by any person, such person shall serve a copy of the complaint upon the Board by certified mail or the equivalent.</p><p>2. A copy of any pleading or document filed subsequent to the initial service of process in the action against a regulant shall be provided to the Board. The claimant shall submit such copies to the Board by certified mail, or the equivalent, upon his receipt of the pleading or document.</p><p>3. A verified claim shall be filed with the Director no later than 12 months after the date of entry of the final judgment from which no further right of appeal exists.</p><p>4. Prior to submitting the verified claim, the claimant shall:</p><p>a. Conduct or make a reasonable attempt to conduct debtor's interrogatories to determine whether the judgment debtor has any assets that may be sold or applied in whole or partial satisfaction of the judgment; and</p><p>b. Take all legally available actions for the sale or application of any assets disclosed in the debtor's interrogatories.</p><p>C. If the regulant has filed bankruptcy, the claimant shall file a claim with the proper bankruptcy court. If no distribution is made, or the distribution ordered fails to satisfy the claim, the claimant may then file a claim with the Board. The verified claim shall be received by the Board within 12 months of the date of bankruptcy discharge or dismissal. In the event the judgment is silent as to the conduct of the regulant, the Board shall determine (i) whether the conduct of the regulant that gave rise to the claim was improper or dishonest and (ii) what amount, if any, such claimant is entitled to recover from the Fund.</p><p>1980, c. 635, ยง 54-145.3:3; 1984, c. 270; 1987, c. 555; 1988, cc. 393, 765; 1990, cc. 215, 437, 911; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0784'>784</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0096'>96</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0885'>885</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0055'>55</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0261'>261</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0343'>343</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0409'>409</a>.</p>