# ยง 10.1-1102 Board of Forestry.

<p>The Board of Forestry within the Department of Forestry, referred to in this chapter as the Board, shall be composed of 13 members appointed by the Governor. At least two members shall be representatives of the pine pulpwood industry; two members shall be representatives of the pine lumber industry; two members shall be representatives of the hardwood lumber industry; one member shall be a representative of the timber harvesting industry; and two members shall be small forest landowners. In making appointments to the Board, the Governor shall take into account the geographic diversity of board membership as it relates to Virginia's forest resources. Beginning July 1, 2012, the Governor's appointments shall be staggered as follows: four members for a term of one year, three members for a term of two years, three members for a term of three years, and three members for a term of four years. After the initial staggering of terms, appointments shall be for four-year terms. The State Forester shall serve as executive officer of the Board.</p><p>No member of the Board, except the executive officer, shall be eligible for more than two successive terms; however, persons subsequently appointed to fill vacancies may serve two additional successive terms after the terms of the vacancies they were appointed to fill have expired. All vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired term.</p><p>The Board shall meet at least three times a year for the transaction of business. Special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the executive officer of the Board, or a majority of the members of the Board.</p><p>Members of the Board shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred as a result of their membership on the Board.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 10-84; 1986, c. 539; 1986, c. 567, ยง 10-84.1; 1988, c. 891; 1990, c. 127; 1992, c. 145; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>