# § 45.2-1614  Additional duties and responsibilities of the Board.

<p>A. In executing its duties under this chapter, the Board shall:</p><p>1. Foster, encourage, and promote the safe and efficient exploration for and development, production, and conservation of gas and oil resources located in the Commonwealth;</p><p>2. Administer a method of gas and oil conservation for the purpose of maximizing exploration, development, production, and utilization of gas and oil resources;</p><p>3. Administer procedures for the recognition and protection of the rights of gas or oil owners with interests in gas or oil resources contained within a pool;</p><p>4. Promote the maximum production and recovery of coal without substantially affecting the right of a gas owner proposing a gas well to explore for and produce gas; and</p><p>5. Hear and decide appeals of the Director's decisions and orders issued under Article 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/45.2-1629/'>45.2-1629</a> et seq.).</p><p>B. Without limiting its general authority, the Board has the specific authority to issue regulations or orders pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.) in order to:</p><p>1. Prevent waste through the design, spacing, or unitization of wells, pools, or fields.</p><p>2. Protect correlative rights.</p><p>3. Enter spacing and pooling orders.</p><p>4. Establish drilling units.</p><p>5. Establish maximum allowable production rates for the prevention of waste and the protection of correlative rights.</p><p>6. Provide for the maximum recovery of coal.</p><p>7. Classify pools and wells as gas, oil, gas and oil, or coalbed methane gas.</p><p>8. Collect data, make investigations and inspections, examine property, leases, papers, books, and records, and require or provide for the keeping of records and the making of reports.</p><p>9. Set application fees.</p><p>10. Govern practices and procedures before the Board.</p><p>11. Require additional data from parties to any hearing.</p><p>12. Take actions reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>1982, c. 347, § 45.1-296; 1987, c. 452; 1990, c. 92, § 45.1-361.15; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>