# § 10.1-645 Limits on expenditures authorized under § 10.1-638 B; sale of resulting facilities; sale of stored water; renting facilities.

<p>Expenditures by the Board for any one facility under the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-638/'>10.1-638</a> B shall not exceed $500,000 without the written approval of the Governor for construction and seeding, acquisition of land, easements, and rights-of-way, engineering costs, appraisal costs, legal services, and other costs related to the facility. The Board is authorized to sell any facility resulting from an expenditure authorized by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-638/'>10.1-638</a> B to any entity to whom a loan could be made pursuant to the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-638/'>10.1-638</a> A under the terms and conditions prescribed hereinafter. Conveyances of any such facilities shall be executed by the chairman of the Board acting pursuant to a resolution of the Board and shall be approved by the Governor and Attorney General as to form and substance. Upon the transfer of title of such facilities, the purchasing entity shall grant an easement or right-of-way to the appropriate soil and water conservation district to assure the continued operation, inspection and repair of the works of improvement on the land sold, and in all cases, the purchasing entity shall agree to maintain the facility in a satisfactory manner. The Board may contract with an entity eligible to borrow from the revolving fund pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-638/'>10.1-638</a> A, for the sale of water stored at facilities constructed by expenditures pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-638/'>10.1-638</a> B. However, it is not the intent of this article to provide a means whereby the Commonwealth shall store and sell water to such entities; therefore, unless extenuating circumstances prevail, such contract shall be entered into with the understanding that such entities shall acquire the rights of the Board in the water storage facility by a future date agreeable to the Board and entity. The Board may lease such facilities to any agency or entity of government, corporation, organization or individual for recreational purposes or any other uses which will not impair the facilities' value for future water supply. Proceeds from the sale of stored water or sale or rental of such facilities shall be placed in the revolving fund.</p><p>1970, c. 591, § 21-11.9; 1972, c. 821; 1988, c. 891.</p>