# § 38.2-1366 Reserve valuation.

<p>A. For policies and contracts issued prior to the operative date of the valuation manual:</p><p>1. The Commission shall annually value, or cause to be valued, the reserve liabilities (hereinafter called reserves) for all outstanding life insurance policies and annuity and pure endowment contracts of every life insurance company doing business in the Commonwealth issued prior to the operative date of the valuation manual. In calculating reserves, the Commission may use group methods and approximate averages for fractions of a year or otherwise. In lieu of the valuation of the reserves required of a foreign or alien company, the Commission may accept a valuation made, or caused to be made, by the insurance supervisory official of any state or other jurisdiction when the valuation complies with the minimum standard provided in this article.</p><p>2. The provisions set forth in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1368/'>38.2-1368</a> through <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1378/'>38.2-1378</a> shall apply to all policies and contracts, as appropriate, subject to this article issued prior to the operative date of the valuation manual and the provisions set forth in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1379/'>38.2-1379</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1380/'>38.2-1380</a> shall not apply to any such policies and contracts.</p><p>B. For policies and contracts issued on or after the operative date of the valuation manual:</p><p>1. The Commission shall annually value, or cause to be valued, the reserve liabilities (hereinafter called reserves) for all outstanding life insurance contracts, annuity and pure endowment contracts, accident and health contracts, and deposit-type contracts of every insurance company issued on or after the operative date of the valuation manual. In lieu of the valuation of the reserves required of a foreign or alien company, the Commission may accept a valuation made, or caused to be made, by the insurance supervisory official of any state or other jurisdiction when the valuation complies with the minimum standard provided in this article.</p><p>2. The provisions set forth in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1379/'>38.2-1379</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1380/'>38.2-1380</a> shall apply to all policies and contracts issued on or after the operative date of the valuation manual.</p><p>C. On or before the last day of February of each year, every domestic incorporated life insurer shall furnish the Commission the necessary data for determining the valuation of all of its policies outstanding on the last preceding December 31. For good cause shown, the Commission may extend an insurer's deadline for submitting this data.</p><p>2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0571'>571</a>.</p>