# § 38.2-1316.4 Credit allowed any ceding insurer.

<p>Credit shall be allowed any ceding insurer under the following conditions:</p><p>1. Credit shall be allowed when reinsurance is ceded to an assuming insurer not meeting the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1316.2/'>38.2-1316.2</a> but only with respect to the insurance of risks located in jurisdictions where such reinsurance is required by applicable law or regulation of that jurisdiction.</p><p>2. Credit, in the form of a reduction from liability for reinsurance ceded to an assuming insurer not meeting the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1316.2/'>38.2-1316.2</a>, shall be allowed in an amount not exceeding the liabilities carried by the ceding insurer and attributable to the reinsurance, provided that the Commission may adopt by regulation pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1316.7/'>38.2-1316.7</a> specific additional requirements relating to or setting forth any one or more of the following: (i) the valuation of assets or reserve credits, (ii) the amount and forms of security supporting reinsurance arrangements described in subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1316.7/'>38.2-1316.7</a>, and (iii) the circumstances pursuant to which credit will be reduced or eliminated. Additionally, such reduction shall not exceed the amount of funds held by or on behalf of the ceding insurer, including funds held in trust for the ceding insurer, under a reinsurance contract with such assuming insurer as security for the payment of obligations thereunder, if such security is (a) held in the United States subject to withdrawal solely by, and under the exclusive control of, the ceding insurer or (b) in the case of a trust, held in a qualified United States financial institution. The required security may be in the form of:</p><p>a. Cash.</p><p>b. Securities listed by the Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC, including those deemed exempt from filing as defined by the Purposes and Procedures Manual of the Investment Analysis Office, and qualifying as admitted assets with adequate liquidity and readily determinable market value.</p><p>c. Clean, irrevocable, unconditional letters of credit issued or confirmed by a qualified United States financial institution, as defined in this article, no later than December 31 in respect of the year for which filing is being made, and in the possession of the ceding insurer on or before the filing date of its annual statement. Letters of credit meeting applicable standards of insurer acceptability as of the dates of their issuance (or confirmation) shall, notwithstanding the issuing (or confirming) institution's subsequent failure to meet applicable standards of insurer acceptability, continue to be acceptable as security until their expiration, extension, renewal, modification or amendment, whichever first occurs.</p><p>d. Any other form of security acceptable to the Commission.</p><p>1991, c. 264; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0477'>477</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0208'>208</a>.</p>