# ยง 2.2-2449 Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman.

<p>The Board shall consist of 26 members to be appointed by the Governor as follows: 21 citizen members who shall represent business, education, the arts, and government, at least 15 of whom shall be of Asian descent; and the Secretaries of Commerce and Trade, the Commonwealth, Education, Health and Human Resources, and Public Safety and Homeland Security, or their designees, to serve as ex officio members of the Board.</p><p>Following the initial staggering of terms, citizen members shall serve for terms of four years. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. The Secretaries of Commerce and Trade, the Commonwealth, Education, Health and Human Resources, and Public Safety and Homeland Security, or their designees, shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.</p><p>The members of the Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman annually.</p><p>Members shall receive no compensation for their services, but shall be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses in accordance with ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2823/'>2.2-2823</a>.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0566'>566</a>, ยง 9-401; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0395'>395</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0057'>57</a>.</p>