# ยง 38.2-3113.1 Modified guaranteed life insurance and modified guaranteed annuities; separate accounts; authority to issue; statements required; regulations to be issued; approval expenses.

<p>A. For purposes of this section, "modified guaranteed contracts" means modified guaranteed life insurance or modified guaranteed annuity contracts. The provisions of this section apply only to such contracts.</p><p>B. A domestic insurer that issues modified guaranteed contracts may establish one or more separate accounts in connection with these types of contracts. All amounts received by the insurer to provide benefits under contracts for which separate accounts have been established shall be added to the appropriate separate account. Unless provided otherwise in the contract and approved by the Commission in its discretion, the assets of any such separate account shall be chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business the insurer may conduct.</p><p>C. A foreign or alien insurer licensed to do business in this Commonwealth may be licensed to deliver or issue for delivery modified guaranteed contracts in this Commonwealth only if authorized to issue such contracts under the laws of its domicile.</p><p>D. No domestic, foreign, or alien insurer shall be licensed to deliver or issue for delivery modified guaranteed contracts in this Commonwealth, until the insurer has satisfied the Commission that its condition and methods of operation in connection with the issuance of modified guaranteed contracts will not render its operation hazardous to the public or to its policyholders in this Commonwealth. In determining the qualifications of an insurer to deliver or issue for delivery such modified guaranteed contracts in this Commonwealth, the Commission shall consider, but shall not be limited to considering, the following: (i) the history and financial condition of the insurer; (ii) the character, responsibility, and general fitness of the officers and directors of the insurer; and (iii) in the case of a foreign or alien insurer, whether the regulation provided by the laws of its domicile provides a degree of protection to policyholders and the public substantially equal to that provided by this section and any rules and regulations issued by the Commission.</p><p>E. Each insurer that has established any separate accounts in connection with modified guaranteed contracts, and delivers or issues for delivery modified guaranteed contracts in this Commonwealth shall file with the Commission, in addition to the annual statement required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1300/'>38.2-1300</a>, any other periodic or special reports the Commission prescribes.</p><p>F. Any modified guaranteed contract delivered or issued for delivery in this Commonwealth, and any certificate evidencing nonforfeiture benefits that vary according to a market-value adjustment formula issued pursuant to any life insurance or annuity contract issued on a group basis shall (i) contain, on its first page, a prominent statement that the nonforfeiture values may increase or decrease, based on the market-value adjustment formula in the contract, and (ii) for modified guaranteed life insurance only, be accompanied by a written disclosure to the purchaser of the policy's "interest adjusted net cost index" in compliance with regulations or forms approved by the Commission.</p><p>G. The Commission may promulgate reasonable regulations applicable to modified guaranteed contracts and to any separate accounts that may be established in connection with such contracts.</p><p>H. Reasonable actuarial expenses incurred in connection with approval of a modified contract shall be paid by the person seeking approval of such a contract.</p><p>1992, c. 210.</p>