# § 65.2-503 Permanent loss.

<p>A. Compensation for permanent partial and permanent total loss and disfigurement shall be awarded as provided in this section.</p><p>B. The following losses shall be compensated for the period specified at the rate of 66 2/3 percent of the average weekly wage as defined in § <a href='/vacode/65.2-101/'>65.2-101</a>:</p><table id="65.2-503-1" colsep="none" frame="none" rowsep="none"><colgroup cols="3"><col colwidth="1.67*"/><col colwidth="0.13*"/><col align="right" colwidth="1.23*"/></colgroup><tbody><tr><td>Loss</td><td></td><td>Compensation Period</td></tr><tr><td>1. Thumb</td><td></td><td>60 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>2. First finger (index finger)</td><td></td><td>35 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>3. Second finger</td><td></td><td>30 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>4. Third finger</td><td></td><td>20 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>5. Fourth finger (little finger)</td><td></td><td>15 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>6. First phalanx of the thumb or any finger</td><td></td><td>one-half compensation for loss of entire thumb or finger.</td></tr><tr><td>The loss of more than one phalanx of a thumb or finger is deemed the loss of the entire thumb or finger. Amounts received for loss of more than one finger shall not exceed compensation provided for the loss of a hand.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>7. Great toe</td><td></td><td>30 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>8. A toe other than a great toe</td><td></td><td>10 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>9. First phalanx of any toe</td><td></td><td>one-half compensation for loss of entire toe.</td></tr><tr><td>The loss of more than one phalanx of a toe is deemed the loss of the entire toe.</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>10. Hand</td><td></td><td>150 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>11. Arm</td><td></td><td>200 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>12. Foot</td><td></td><td>125 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>13. Leg</td><td></td><td>175 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>14. Permanent total loss of the vision of an eye</td><td></td><td>100 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>15. Permanent total loss of hearing of an ear</td><td></td><td>50 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>16. Severely marked disfigurement of the body resulting from an injury not otherwise compensated by this section</td><td></td><td>not exceeding 60 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>17. Pneumoconiosis, including but not limited to silicosis and asbestosis, medically determined to be in the</td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>a. First stage</td><td></td><td>50 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>b. Second stage</td><td></td><td>100 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>c. Third stage</td><td></td><td>300 weeks.</td></tr><tr><td>18. Byssinosis</td><td></td><td>50 weeks.</td></tr></tbody></table><p>C. Compensation shall be awarded pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/65.2-500/'>65.2-500</a> for permanent and total incapacity when there is:</p><p>1. Loss of both hands, both arms, both feet, both legs, both eyes, or any two thereof either from the same accident or a compensable consequence of an injury sustained in the original accident;</p><p>2. Injury for all practical purposes resulting in total paralysis, as determined by the Commission based on medical evidence; or</p><p>3. Injury to the brain which is so severe as to render the employee permanently unemployable in gainful employment.</p><p>D. In construing this section, the permanent loss of the use of a member shall be equivalent to the loss of such member, and for the permanent partial loss or loss of use of a member, compensation may be proportionately awarded. Compensation shall also be awarded proportionately for partial loss of vision or hearing.</p><p>E. Except as provided in subsection C, the weekly compensation payments referred to in this section shall be subject to the same limitations as to maximum and minimum as set out in § <a href='/vacode/65.2-500/'>65.2-500</a>.</p><p>1. Compensation awarded pursuant to this section shall be payable after payments for temporary total incapacity pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/65.2-500/'>65.2-500</a>.</p><p>2. Compensation pursuant to this section may be paid simultaneously with payments for partial incapacity pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/65.2-502/'>65.2-502</a>. Where compensation pursuant to this section is paid simultaneously with payments for partial incapacity pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/65.2-502/'>65.2-502</a>, each combined payment shall count as two weeks against the total maximum allowable period of 500 weeks.</p><p>Code 1950, § 65-53; 1964, cc. 116, 190; 1968, cc. 347, 660, § 65.1-56; 1970, c. 470; 1972, c. 229; 1975, cc. 446, 450; 1976, c. 655; 1982, c. 326; 1983, c. 287; 1987, c. 560; 1988, cc. 564, 596; 1991, c. 355; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0511'>511</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0520'>520</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0530'>530</a>.</p>