# ยง 58.1-4039 Events on which betting is prohibited; penalty.

<p>A. 1. No person shall place or accept a bet on youth sports.</p><p>2. No person shall place or accept a proposition bet on college sports.</p><p>3. No person shall place or accept a bet on Virginia college sports.</p><p>B. 1. A sports governing body may notify the Department that it desires to restrict, limit, or prohibit sports betting on its sporting events by providing notice in accordance with requirements prescribed by the Director. A sports governing body also may request to restrict the types of bets that may be offered. Notwithstanding ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-4030/'>58.1-4030</a>, for purposes of this section, "sports governing body" includes any organization that is not headquartered in the United States and that otherwise meets the definition of "sports governing body."</p><p>2. For any request made pursuant to subdivision 1, the requester shall bear the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Director that the relevant betting or other activity poses a significant and unreasonable integrity risk. The Director shall seek input from affected permit holders before making a determination on such request.</p><p>3. If the Director denies a request made pursuant to subdivision 1, the Director shall give the requester notice and the right to be heard and offer proof in opposition to such determination in accordance with regulations established by the Board. If the Director grants a request, the Board shall promulgate by regulation such restrictions, limitations, or prohibitions as may be requested.</p><p>4. A permit holder shall not offer or take any bets in violation of regulations promulgated by the Board pursuant to this subsection.</p><p>C. The prohibitions in subdivisions A 1 and A 3 shall be limited to the single game or match in which a youth sports or Virginia college sports team is a participant. The prohibitions shall not be construed to prohibit betting on other games in a tournament or multigame event in which a youth sports or Virginia college sports team participates, so long as such other games do not have a participant that is a youth sports or Virginia college sports team.</p><p>D. Any person convicted of violating this section is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1218'>1218</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1256'>1256</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0351'>351</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0352'>352</a>.</p>