# ยง 63.2-1502 Establishment of Child-Protective Services Unit; duties.

<p>There is created a Child-Protective Services Unit in the Department that shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. To evaluate and strengthen all local, regional and state programs dealing with child abuse and neglect.</p><p>2. To assume primary responsibility for directing the planning and funding of child-protective services. This shall include reviewing and approving the annual proposed plans and budgets for protective services submitted by the local departments.</p><p>3. To assist in developing programs aimed at discovering and preventing the many factors causing child abuse and neglect.</p><p>4. To prepare and disseminate, including the presentation of, educational programs and materials on child abuse and neglect.</p><p>5. To provide educational programs for professionals required by law to make reports under this chapter.</p><p>6. To establish standards of training and provide educational programs to qualify workers in the field of child-protective services. Such standards of training shall include provisions regarding the legal duties of the workers in order to protect the constitutional and statutory rights and safety of children and families from the initial time of contact during investigation through treatment.</p><p>7. To establish standards of training and educational programs to qualify workers to determine whether complaints of abuse or neglect of a child in a private or state-operated hospital, institution or other facility, or public school, are founded.</p><p>8. To maintain staff qualified pursuant to Board regulations to assist local department personnel in determining whether an employee of a private or state-operated hospital, institution or other facility or an employee of a school board, abused or neglected a child in such hospital, institution, or other facility, or public school.</p><p>9. To monitor the processing and determination of cases where an employee of a private or state-operated hospital, institution or other facility, or an employee of a school board, is suspected of abusing or neglecting a child in such hospital, institution, or other facility, or public school.</p><p>10. To help coordinate child-protective services at the state, regional, and local levels with the efforts of other state and voluntary social, medical and legal agencies.</p><p>11. To maintain a child abuse and neglect information system that includes all cases of child abuse and neglect within the Commonwealth.</p><p>12. To provide for methods to preserve the confidentiality of all records in order to protect the rights of the child, and his parents or guardians.</p><p>13. To establish minimum training requirements for workers and supervisors on family abuse and domestic violence, including the relationship between domestic violence and child abuse and neglect.</p><p>14. To establish minimum training requirements for workers and supervisors on identifying, assessing, and providing comprehensive services for children who are victims of sex trafficking or severe forms of trafficking as defined in the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, 22 U.S.C ยง 7102 et seq., and in the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015, 42 U.S.C. ยง 5101 et seq., including efforts to coordinate with law-enforcement, juvenile justice, and social service agencies such as runaway and homeless youth shelters to serve this population.</p><p>1975, c. 341, ยง 63.1-248.7; 1984, c. 734; 1993, c. 955; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0500'>500</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0093'>93</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0233'>233</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0972'>972</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0980'>980</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0631'>631</a>.</p>