# ยง 63.2-2201 Caregivers Grant Program established.

<p>A. From January 1, 2000, through December 31, 2010, any caregiver who provides care for a mentally or physically impaired person shall be eligible to receive an annual caregivers grant in the amount of $500. The grants under this chapter shall be paid from the Fund, as provided in this chapter, to the caregiver during the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the care for a mentally or physically impaired person was provided. The total amount of grants to be paid under this chapter for any year shall not exceed the amount appropriated by the General Assembly to the Fund for payment to caregivers for such year.</p><p>B. Only one grant shall be allowed annually for each mentally or physically impaired person receiving care under the provisions of this section. Multiple caregivers providing care to the same mentally or physically impaired person shall be eligible to share the $500 grant as mutually agreed. However, only one caregiver may submit a grant application for the person. A caregiver providing care to more than one eligible person shall submit a separate grant application for each person receiving care.</p><p>C. The mentally or physically impaired person being cared for may live in the caregiver's home or in his own home but shall not be receiving Medicaid-reimbursed community long-term care services, other than on a temporary or periodic basis, or living in a nursing home or other assisted living facility where assistance with ADLs is already provided and the cost of such assistance is included in the monthly bill or rental fee.</p><p>1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0737'>737</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0763'>763</a>, ยง 63.1-332; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0031'>31</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>