# § 23.1-3136 Board of Trustees.

<p>A. The Authority shall be governed by a Board of Trustees (the Board) that has a total membership of 19 members that shall consist of four members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; three members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; three nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor; one nonlegislative citizen member to be appointed by the board of visitors of George Mason University; one nonlegislative citizen member to be appointed by the board of visitors of Old Dominion University; one nonlegislative citizen member to be appointed by the State Board; one nonlegislative citizen member to be appointed by the board of visitors of James Madison University, and five members who shall serve ex officio with voting privileges, consisting of the President of George Mason University or his designee, the President of Old Dominion University or his designee, the President of James Madison University or his designee, the Chancellor of the Virginia Community College System or his designee, and the Director of the Council. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Authority shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Legislative and ex officio members of the Board shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.</p><p>C. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed.</p><p>D. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years.</p><p>E. No House member shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms, no Senate member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms, and no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.</p><p>F. The Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>G. Legislative members of the Board shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>, and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive such compensation for the performance of their duties as provided in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a>. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Authority.</p><p>H. George Mason University, Old Dominion University, and the System shall provide staff support to the Authority and the Board. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall provide assistance to the Board, upon request.</p><p>2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0686'>686</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0199'>199</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0200'>200</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0832'>832</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0845'>845</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0174'>174</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0340'>340</a>.</p>