# § 6.2-1501 Compliance with chapter; license required; attempts to evade application of chapter.

<p>A. No person shall engage in the business of making loans to individuals for personal, family, household, or other nonbusiness purposes, and charge, contract for, or receive, directly or indirectly, on or in connection with any loan interest, charges, compensation, consideration, or expense that in the aggregate is greater than the interest permitted by § <a href='/vacode/6.2-303/'>6.2-303</a>, whether or not the person has a location in the Commonwealth, except as provided in and authorized by this chapter, Chapter 18 (§ <a href='/vacode/6.2-1800/'>6.2-1800</a> et seq.), or Chapter 22 (§ <a href='/vacode/6.2-2200/'>6.2-2200</a> et seq.) and without first having obtained a license from the Commission.</p><p>B. Subject to subdivision C 3 and subsection C of § <a href='/vacode/6.2-1524/'>6.2-1524</a>, the prohibition in subsection A shall not be construed to prevent any person, other than a licensee, from:</p><p>1. Providing the services of an access partner described in § <a href='/vacode/6.2-1523.1/'>6.2-1523.1</a>;</p><p>2. Making a mortgage loan pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/6.2-325/'>6.2-325</a> and <a href='/vacode/6.2-326/'>6.2-326</a> or §§ <a href='/vacode/6.2-327/'>6.2-327</a> and <a href='/vacode/6.2-328/'>6.2-328</a> in any principal amount; or</p><p>3. Extending credit as described in § <a href='/vacode/6.2-312/'>6.2-312</a> in any amount.</p><p>C. The provisions of subsection A shall apply to any person who seeks to evade its application by any device, subterfuge, or pretense whatsoever, including:</p><p>1. The loan, forbearance, use, or sale of (i) credit, as guarantor, surety, endorser, comaker, or otherwise; (ii) money; (iii) goods; or (iv) things in action;</p><p>2. The use of collateral or related sales or purchases of goods or services, or agreements to sell or purchase, whether real or pretended; receiving or charging compensation for goods or services, whether or not sold, delivered, or provided; and</p><p>3. The real or pretended negotiation, arrangement, or procurement of a loan through any use or activity of a third person, whether real or fictitious.</p><p>D. No person shall engage in the business of arranging or brokering consumer finance loans for any consumer residing in the Commonwealth, whether or not the person has an office or conducts business at a location in the Commonwealth.</p><p>E. The provisions of this section shall apply to any person, whether or not the person has an office or conducts business at a location in the Commonwealth.</p><p>F. Any loan made in violation of this section is void, and no person shall have the right to collect, receive, or retain any principal, interest, fees, or other charges in connection with the loan.</p><p>Code 1950, §§  6-279, 6-281; 1956, c. 71; 1966, c. 584, §§ 6.1-249, 6.1-251; 1968, c. 489; 1974, c. 371; 1986, c. 502; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0009'>9</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0308'>308</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0897'>897</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0477'>477</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1215'>1215</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1258'>1258</a>.</p>