# ยง 59.1-331 Resale of memberships.

<p>A. In the event of the resale of a membership by a purchaser who is neither a membership camping operator nor any other person who is in the business of offering for sale or transfer the rights under existing membership camping contracts for a fee, such purchaser (hereinafter in this section called "owner") shall furnish to the new purchaser before the execution of any instrument of conveyance a copy of the membership camping contract and a certificate containing:</p><p>1. A statement disclosing any right of first refusal or other restraint on transfer of the membership.</p><p>2. A statement setting forth the amount of the periodic payments which are required by the contract including any amounts currently due and payable.</p><p>3. That the membership camping operator may have a valid reason for not transferring the contract to the new purchaser.</p><p>4. That there may have been changes in the rules or regulations concerning the rights and obligations of the membership camping operator or purchasers, including changes with respect to membership fees, dues, and assessments, or that some campgrounds or facilities may have been withdrawn.</p><p>5. Any other material changes or risks to the purchaser known to the owner.</p><p>B. The membership camping operator within ten days after receipt of a written request by an owner, shall furnish the owner with a written certificate containing the information necessary to enable the owner to comply with subdivisions 1 and 2 of subsection A of this section. An owner providing such certificate pursuant to subsection A is not liable to the purchaser for any erroneous information provided by the membership camping operator and included in the certificate. The membership camping operator is not liable to either the owner or the new purchaser for any information not provided by him.</p><p>1985, c. 409; 1992, c. 545.</p>