# ยง 56-77 Certain contracts must be approved by the Commission.

<p>A. No contract or arrangement providing for the furnishing of management, supervisory, construction, engineering, accounting, legal, financial, or similar services, and no contract or arrangement for the purchase, sale, lease or exchange of any property, right or thing, other than those above enumerated, or for the purchase or sale of treasury bonds or treasury capital stock made or entered into between a public service company and any affiliated interest shall be valid or effective unless and until it shall have been filed with and approved by the Commission. The Commission shall, after the filing of such a contract or arrangement, approve or disapprove the contract or arrangement within sixty days. The sixty-day period may be extended by Commission order for an additional period not to exceed thirty days. The contract or arrangement shall be deemed approved if the Commission fails to act within sixty days or any extended period ordered by the Commission. It shall be the duty of every public service company to file with the Commission a verified copy of any such contract or arrangement, regardless of the amount involved, and the general rule herein referred to shall remain in full force and effect as to all other public service companies.</p><p>B. The Commission may, in its discretion and upon petition of the public service company or upon the Commission's own action, choose to exempt a public service company from all or any part of the requirements imposed by subsection A if the Commission determines that such an exemption is in the public interest. In addition to exemptions for individual public service companies, the Commission may adopt rules implementing exemptions from all or any part of the requirements imposed by subsection A. The Commission may revoke any exemptions granted under this subsection if it finds that such action is in the public interest.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-481.2/'>56-481.2</a>, the Commission, after giving notice and an opportunity for a hearing, may, in its discretion, require any company certificated to provide, and engaged in the provision of, local exchange telephone service to meet the requirements of subsection A.</p><p>1934, p. 744; Michie Code 1942, ยง 3774c; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0019'>19</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0707'>707</a>.</p>