# ยง 8.01-52 Amount of damages.

<p>The jury or the court, as the case may be, in any such action under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-50/'>8.01-50</a> may award such damages as to it may seem fair and just. The verdict or judgment of the court trying the case without a jury shall include, but may not be limited to, damages for the following:</p><p>1. Sorrow, mental anguish, and solace which may include society, companionship, comfort, guidance, kindly offices and advice of the decedent;</p><p>2. Compensation for reasonably expected loss of (i) income of the decedent and (ii) services, protection, care and assistance provided by the decedent;</p><p>3. Expenses for the care, treatment and hospitalization of the decedent incident to the injury resulting in death;</p><p>4. Reasonable funeral expenses; and</p><p>5. Punitive damages may be recovered for willful or wanton conduct, or such recklessness as evinces a conscious disregard for the safety of others.</p><p>Damages recoverable under 3, 4 and 5 above shall be specifically stated by the jury or the court, as the case may be. Damages recoverable under 3 and 4 above shall be apportioned among the creditors who rendered such services, as their respective interests may appear. Competent expert testimony shall be admissible in proving damages recoverable under 2 above.</p><p>The court shall apportion the costs of the action as it shall deem proper.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 8-636.1; 1974, c. 444; 1977, cc. 460, 617; 1982, c. 441.</p>