# ยง 29.1-113 Admittance, parking, and use at certain Department-owned facilities or Department-leased land; civil penalty.

<p>A. No person shall make use of, gain admittance to, or attempt to use or gain admittance to certain Department-owned facilities where the Department charges a fee established by the Board pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/29.1-103/'>29.1-103</a>, unless the person pays such fee. However, such fee shall not apply to (i) any person holding a valid hunting, trapping, or fishing permit or current certificate of boat registration issued by the Department; (ii) any person 16 years of age or younger; or (iii) the use of Department-owned boat ramps.</p><p>B. No person shall hunt on private lands managed by the Department through a lease agreement or other similar memorandum of agreement where the Department issues an annual hunting stamp without having purchased a valid annual hunting stamp.</p><p>C. Any person violating subsection A or B may, in lieu of any criminal penalty, be assessed a civil penalty of up to $50 by the Department. Civil penalties assessed under this section shall be paid into the Game Protection Fund established pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/29.1-101/'>29.1-101</a>.</p><p>D. No owner or driver shall cause or permit a vehicle to stand:</p><p>1. On property owned or managed by the Department outside of a designated parking space, except for a reasonable time in order to receive or discharge passengers or in the case of an emergency;</p><p>2. In any designated parking space on property owned or managed by the Department in violation of any posted rule regarding use of the space; or</p><p>3. In any space on property owned or managed by the Department designated for use by persons with disabilities unless the vehicle displays a license plate or decal issued by the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles, or a similar identification issued by a similar authority of another state or the District of Columbia, that authorizes parking in such a designated space. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='/vacode/29.1-554/'>29.1-554</a>, any regulation of the Board, or any other trespass provision in the Code of Virginia, no person violating this subsection shall be subject to a criminal penalty. Any person violating this subsection may, in lieu of any criminal penalty, be assessed a civil penalty of $25, which shall be paid into the Game Protection Fund.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0562'>562</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0280'>280</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0768'>768</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0321'>321</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0033'>33</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0034'>34</a>.</p>