# ยง 15.2-5431.10 Members of authority board; chief administrative or executive officer.

<p>A. The powers of each authority created by the governing body of a locality shall be exercised by an authority board of five or seven members, or at the option of the board of supervisors of a county, a number of board members equal to the number of members of the board of supervisors. The board members of an authority shall be selected in the manner and for the terms provided by the agreement or ordinance or resolution or concurrent ordinances or resolutions creating the authority. One or more members of the governing body of a locality may be appointed board members of the authority, the provisions of any other law to the contrary notwithstanding. No board member shall be appointed for a term of more than four years. When one or more additional political subdivisions join an existing authority, each of such joining political subdivisions shall have at least one member on the board. Board members shall hold office until their successors have been appointed and may succeed themselves. The board members of the authority shall elect one of their number chairman, and shall elect a secretary and treasurer who need not be members. The offices of secretary and treasurer may be combined.</p><p>B. A majority of board members shall constitute a quorum and the vote of a majority of board members shall be necessary for any action taken by the authority. An authority may, by bylaw, provide a method to resolve tie votes or deadlocked issues.</p><p>C. No vacancy in the board membership of the authority shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. If a vacancy occurs by reason of the death, disqualification or resignation of a board member, the governing body of the locality that created the authority shall appoint a successor to fill the unexpired term. Whenever a political subdivision withdraws its membership from an authority, the term of any board member appointed to the board of the authority from such political subdivision shall immediately terminate. Board members shall receive such compensation as fixed by resolution of the governing body that created the authority, and shall be reimbursed for any actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.</p><p>D. The board members may appoint a chief administrative or executive officer who shall serve at the pleasure of the board members. He shall execute and enforce the orders and resolutions adopted by the board members and perform such duties as may be delegated to him by the board members.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0643'>643</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0266'>266</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>