# ยง 54.1-2957.22 Advisory Board on Genetic Counseling established; membership; terms.

<p>A. The Advisory Board on Genetic Counseling (Advisory Board) is established as an advisory board in the executive branch of state government. The Advisory Board shall assist the Board of Medicine in formulating regulations related to the practice of genetic counseling. The Advisory Board shall also assist in such other matters relating to the practice of genetic counseling as the Board may require.</p><p>B. The Advisory Board shall consist of five nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, and shall include three licensed genetic counselors, one doctor of medicine or osteopathy who has experience with genetic counseling services, and one nonlegislative citizen member who has used genetic counseling services. Members of the Advisory Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>After the initial staggering of terms, members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. All members may be reappointed. However, no member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0010'>10</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0266'>266</a>.</p>