# ยง 56-549 Default.

<p>In the event of material and continuing default in the performance of the operator's construction or operation duties or failure of the operator to comply with the terms of its agreement with the Department, in either case, after notice thereof and an opportunity to cure, or in the event that construction has not begun within two years of the issuance of a certificate, the Commission, after a hearing in which the applicant or operator has notice and opportunity to participate, may revoke the certificate of authority for the roadway, declare a default in the construction or operation of the roadway, and make or cause to be made the appropriate claim or claims under any completion or performance bonds, or take such other action as it may deem appropriate under the circumstances. The Department may participate in or initiate such proceedings. In case of revocation of a certificate, the applicant or operator shall thereafter be without any authority to construct or operate the roadway, and the Department may take over construction and operation of the roadway, and may proceed thereafter to take any steps which are in the public interest, including completion of construction or additions to the roadway, closing the roadway, or any intermediate step. The Department shall receive the full proceeds of any payments due to claims against bonding companies or sureties for this purpose. In addition, in such event, the operator shall grant to the Department all of its right, title and interest in the assets of the operator. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the Department's exercise of the power of eminent domain. In either case, the operator may obtain compensation from the Department for such assets, except that the Department shall first deduct from the value of such assets all of its costs incurred in connection with completion or fulfillment of the unperformed obligations of the operator including the payment of any obligations assumed by the Department, and any other costs associated with the events contemplated in this section. The Department shall take into account moneys received from the proceeds of any payment or completion bond in calculating the amount due the operator.</p><p>1988, c. 649; 1991, c. 272.</p>