# ยง 64.2-2308 Substitution of presumed decedent in pending actions; reopening of judgments; effect of judgments.

<p>A. After revocation of the order determining death, the person who had been determined to be dead may:</p><p>1. Be substituted as plaintiff in all actions previously brought by his personal representative, whether prosecuted to judgment or otherwise, on suggestion filed by such person; and</p><p>2. Be substituted as defendant in all actions previously brought against his personal representative, on suggestion filed by such person or the plaintiff to the action. If such person is substituted as defendant, he shall not be compelled to go to trial in less than three months from the time that such suggestion is filed.</p><p>B. Upon application by the presumed decedent, judgments recovered against the personal representative before revocation of the order determining death may be opened. Such application by the presumed decedent shall be made within three months from the date of the revocation and shall be supported by an affidavit that specifically denies the cause of the action, in whole or in part, or specifically alleges the existence of facts that would constitute a valid defense. However, if no application is made during the three-month period, or, if an application is made but the facts exhibited are adjudged to be insufficient to constitute a defense, the judgment shall be conclusive for all intents. After the substitution of the presumed decedent as defendant to any judgment pursuant to subdivision A 2, the judgment shall become a lien upon his real estate and shall so continue as other judgments.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 64-110; 1968, c. 656, ยง 64.1-114; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 156; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0351'>351</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614'>614</a>.</p>