# ยง 55.1-1978 Notice of filing and registration.

<p>A. Upon receipt of the application for registration, the Common Interest Community Board shall issue a notice of filing to the applicant within five business days. In the case of receipt of an application for a condominium that is a conversion condominium, the Common Interest Community Board shall also issue within five business days a notice of filing to the chief administrative officer of the county or city in which the proposed condominium is located, and the notice shall include the name and address of the applicant and the name and address or location of the proposed condominium. Within 60 days from the date of the notice of filing, the Common Interest Community Board shall enter an order registering the condominium or rejecting the registration. If no order of rejection is entered within 60 days from the date of notice of filing, the condominium shall be deemed registered unless the applicant has consented in writing to a delay.</p><p>B. If the Common Interest Community Board affirmatively determines, upon inquiry and examination, that the requirements of this chapter and the Common Interest Community Board's regulations have been met, it shall enter an order registering the condominium and shall designate the form of the public offering statement.</p><p>C. If the Common Interest Community Board determines upon inquiry and examination that any of the requirements of this chapter and the Common Interest Community Board's regulations have not been met, the Common Interest Community Board shall notify the applicant that the application for registration must be corrected in the particulars specified within 20 days. If the requirements are not met within the time allowed, the Common Interest Community Board shall enter an order rejecting the registration, and such order shall include the findings of fact upon which the order is based. The order rejecting the registration shall not become effective for 20 days after issuance of the order. During this 20-day period, the applicant may petition for reconsideration and shall be entitled to a hearing to correct the particulars specified in the Common Interest Community Board's notice. Such order of rejection shall not take effect, in any event, until such time as the hearing, once requested, is given to the applicant.</p><p>1974, c. 416, ยง 55-79.92; 1985, c. 107; 1988, c. 15; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0726'>726</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>