# ยง 62.1-69.33 Funding.

<p>A. The Commission shall annually adopt a budget, which shall include the Commission's estimated expenses. The funding of the Commission shall be a shared responsibility of state and local governments. The Commonwealth's contribution shall be set through the normal state appropriations process. The Commission's local government members shall determine a process for distribution of costs among the local government members.</p><p>B. The Commission shall annually designate a fiscal agent.</p><p>C. The accounts and records of the Commission showing the receipt and disbursement of funds from whatever source derived shall be in such form as the Auditor of Public Accounts prescribes, provided that such accounts shall correspond as nearly as possible to the accounts and records for such matters maintained by similar enterprises. The accounts and records of the Commission shall be subject to an annual audit by the Auditor of Public Accounts or his legal representative, and the costs of such audit services shall be borne by the Commission. The results of the audits shall be delivered to the chief elected officer in each of the Commission's member jurisdictions, the members of the House of Delegates and the Senate who serve on the Commission, the chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, and the Secretary of Natural and Historic Resources. The Commission's fiscal year shall be the same as the Commonwealth's.</p><p>1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0553'>553</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0386'>386</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0456'>456</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0401'>401</a>.</p>