# ยง 22.1-118 Management of funds for joint school; county or city treasurer as fiscal agent.

<p>The treasurer of a county or city in which a joint school is located shall be the fiscal agent of such school and shall receive and disburse the funds thereof. However, the participating school boards of a joint school, including an academic year Governor's School operated by two or more school divisions, may by agreement and with the approval of the respective local governing bodies, select the fiscal agent for the joint school from among the treasurers, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3123/'>58.1-3123</a>, of the participating localities. All disbursements shall be by warrant signed by the clerk of the committee for control of such school and countersigned by such treasurer as fiscal agent.</p><p>For his services as fiscal agent, the treasurer shall be paid such salary as may be agreed upon by the committee for control of the joint school and treasurer. In the event they cannot agree, then the amount of salary to be paid shall be submitted to the circuit court of the county or city in which the school is located for hearing and determination, and the amount so fixed by the court shall be binding upon both the treasurer and the committee. Nothing contained in this section shall affect the regular salary allowance of the treasurer as fixed annually by the State Compensation Board.</p><p>The provisions of this section shall not apply to the property and school known as New London Academy leased under the provisions of Chapter 174 of the Acts of Assembly of 1887, approved May 10, 1887, and acts amendatory thereof, nor shall they apply in Albemarle County.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 22-133.1; 1970, c. 215; 1980, c. 559; 1993, cc. 7, 161; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0702'>702</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0045'>45</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>.</p>