# ยง 30-233 (Contingent expiration date -- see notes) Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman and vice-chairman.

<p>The Commission shall consist of 11 members that includes six legislative members and five nonlegislative citizen members. Members shall be appointed as follows: two members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; four members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; two nonlegislative citizen members, one of whom shall be a consumer with a disability and one shall be a member of the medical, insurance, or rehabilitation professions, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules upon consideration of the recommendation of the Governor, if any; and three nonlegislative citizen members, one of whom shall be a consumer with a disability, one shall be a member of the medical, insurance, or rehabilitation professions, and one shall be a citizen at large, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates upon consideration of the recommendations of the Governor, if any. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Commission shall be citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Unless otherwise approved in writing by the chairman of the Commission and the respective Clerk, nonlegislative citizen members shall only be reimbursed for travel originating and ending within the Commonwealth of Virginia for the purpose of attending meetings.</p><p>Legislative members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for terms of two years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Legislative and nonlegislative citizen members may be reappointed. However, no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its legislative membership.</p><p>2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0992'>992</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1015'>1015</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0101'>101</a>.</p>