# ยง 46.2-654.2 Temporary registration of fleet vehicles; penalty.

<p>A. For purposes of this section, "fleet logistics provider" means an entity that transports, services, titles, and registers non-owned fleet vehicles in the normal course of business.</p><p>B. The Department may issue a temporary registration to a fleet logistics provider if:</p><p>1. Application for temporary registration is made by the fleet logistics provider acting as duly authorized attorney-in-fact for the title owner;</p><p>2. The fleet logistics provider is registered to conduct business in Virginia;</p><p>3. The fleet logistics provider has or will have custody and control of the vehicle at the time the temporary registration becomes effective;</p><p>4. The fleet logistics provider or title owner has submitted to the appropriate authority the information necessary to title or register the vehicle in the Commonwealth or another state prior to the expiration of the temporary registration and the vehicle was not temporarily registered during the period immediately preceding the application for temporary registration;</p><p>5. The title owner prior to the temporary registration will remain the title owner when the vehicle is titled and registered in the Commonwealth or another state;</p><p>6. The vehicle is an insured motor vehicle as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-705/'>46.2-705</a>;</p><p>7. The fleet logistics provider has entered into an agreement with the Department to use the print-on-demand program described in this section; and</p><p>8. The fleet logistics provider has paid applicable fees for the temporary registration authorized by this section.</p><p>C. The Department shall develop and implement procedures and requirements necessary for delivery of temporary license plates to a fleet logistics provider using print-on-demand technology.</p><p>D. The following provisions apply to the use of print-on-demand technology by a fleet logistics provider:</p><p>1. A fleet logistics provider obtaining temporary registration pursuant to this section shall be required to purchase only print-on-demand temporary license plates.</p><p>2. Every fleet logistics provider that has applied for temporary license plates shall maintain a permanent record of all temporary license plates applied for and any other information pertaining to the receipt of temporary license plates that may be required by the Department.</p><p>3. No fleet logistics provider shall request a temporary license plate except on written application through the print-on-demand program.</p><p>4. No fleet logistics provider shall permit temporary license plates to be used on any vehicle other than that identified in the application for temporary registration.</p><p>5. It shall be unlawful for any fleet logistics provider to make a deliberate misrepresentation on a request for temporary license plates or to knowingly submit a request with false information.</p><p>6. Each temporary license plate issued pursuant to this section shall display on its face the name of the party using the print-on-demand system, the date of issuance and expiration, and the make and identification number of the vehicle for which it is issued.</p><p>7. The Commissioner may suspend the right of a fleet logistics provider to request temporary license plates if the Commissioner determines that the provisions of this chapter or the directions of the Department are not being complied with by such fleet logistics provider.</p><p>8. Every fleet logistics provider to whom temporary license plates have been issued shall destroy such plates on the thirtieth day after request or immediately on receipt of the permanent license plates from the Department or another jurisdiction, whichever occurs first.</p><p>9. Temporary license plates shall expire on receipt of the permanent license plates from the Department or another jurisdiction, or 30 days after issuance, whichever occurs first. No refund or credit of fees paid by a fleet logistics provider to the Department for temporary license plates shall be issued.</p><p>E. The Department is authorized to charge a reasonable fee for the temporary registration applied for under this section, and any fees collected by the Department pursuant to this section shall be transferred to a special fund in the state treasury used to meet the expenses of the Department.</p><p>F. Any person violating any of the provisions of subsection D of this section is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Any summons issued for any violation of this section relating to use or misuse of temporary license plates shall be served (i) upon the fleet logistics provider to whom the plates were issued or to the person expressly permitting the unlawful use or (ii) upon the operator of the motor vehicle if the plates are used contrary to the use authorized pursuant to this section.</p><p>2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>.</p>