# ยง 11-34.2 (Repealed effective October 1, 2021) Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter:</p><p>"Contracting entity" means any public body as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4301/'>2.2-4301</a>.</p><p>"Energy conservation measures and facility technology infrastructure" means the methods, techniques, application of knowledge, installation of devices, including an alteration or betterment to an existing facility, that reduce energy consumption or operating costs, and includes, but is not limited to:</p><p>1. Insulation of the facility structure and systems within the facility.</p><p>2. Storm windows and doors, caulking or weatherstripping, multiglazed windows and doors, heat-absorbing, or heat-reflective, glazed and coated window and door systems, additional glazing, reductions in glass area, and other window and door system modifications that reduce energy consumption.</p><p>3. Automatic energy control systems including related software. Required network communication wiring, computer devices, wiring, and support services. Additionally, designing and implementing major building technology infrastructure with operational improvements.</p><p>4. Heating, ventilating, or air-conditioning system modifications or replacements.</p><p>5. Replacement or modifications of lighting fixtures to increase the energy efficiency of the lighting system which, at a minimum, shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Uniform Statewide Building Code (ยง <a href='/vacode/36-97/'>36-97</a> et seq.).</p><p>6. Energy recovery systems.</p><p>7. Cogeneration systems that produce steam or forms of energy such as heat, as well as electricity, for use primarily within a facility or complex of facilities.</p><p>8. Energy conservation measures that provide long-term operating cost reductions and significantly reduce the BTUs consumed.</p><p>9. Building technology infrastructure measures that provide long-term operating cost reductions and reduce related operational costs.</p><p>10. Renewable energy systems, such as solar, biomass, and wind.</p><p>11. Devices that reduce water consumption or sewer charges.</p><p>"Energy cost savings" means a measured reduction in fuel, energy, or operation and maintenance costs created from the implementation of one or more energy conservation measures when compared with an established baseline for previous fuel, energy, or operation and maintenance costs. When calculating "energy cost savings" attributable to the services performed or equipment installed pursuant to a performance-based efficiency contract, maintenance savings shall be included.</p><p>"Energy performance-based contract" means a contract for the evaluation, recommendation, and implementation of energy conservation measures and facility technology infrastructure upgrades and modernization that includes, at a minimum:</p><p>1. The design and installation of equipment to implement one or more of such measures, and if applicable, operation and maintenance of such measures.</p><p>2. The amount of any actual annual savings. This amount must meet or exceed total annual contract payments made by the contracting entity for such contract.</p><p>3. Financing charges to be incurred by the contracting entity for such contract.</p><p>"Maintenance savings" means the operating expenses eliminated and future capital replacement expenditures avoided as a result of new equipment installed or services performed by the performance contractor.</p><p>"Performance guarantee bond" means for each year of the energy program, the energy performance contractor shall provide a performance bond in an amount equal to, but no greater than, the guaranteed measured and verifiable annual savings set forth in the program.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0219'>219</a>.</p>