# § 15.2-3822 Sharing of offices; transfer of jurisdiction.

<p>A. Any attorney for the Commonwealth, clerk of a circuit court, or sheriff who performed his duties and had jurisdiction in both a city and a county prior to July 1, 1979, under provisions of this chapter in effect prior to that date, shall continue to serve both localities until (i) the city ceases to share such positions in accordance with the provisions of general law or (ii) the city is transferred in accordance with the provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-69.6/'>16.1-69.6</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/17.1-506/'>17.1-506</a> to a judicial circuit and district which is comprised of a county other than the circuit and district where the city was situated. Until such declaration or transfer is made, the qualified voters residing in the city may vote for these officers at the general election for county officers.</p><p>B. Upon the effective date of the transfer referred to in clause (ii) of subsection A, the judges of the circuit court for the county in the judicial circuit to which the city was transferred shall appoint the attorney for the Commonwealth and clerk of the circuit court for that adjoining county. If the city has a locally elected city sheriff, the city sheriff shall be the only sheriff for the city. The city may contract with the county to which it was transferred for jail facilities. If the effective date of the transfer is to take place within 120 days after an election for the clerk of the circuit court or attorney for the Commonwealth in the county to which the city is transferred, the voters of the city shall be entitled to vote in the election for each officer. The voting wards or precincts of the city shall be treated as precincts of the adjoining county and no candidate for these offices shall be required to qualify separately in the city. The qualified voters of the city shall thereafter be entitled to vote for these officers.</p><p>C. If the situation in either clause (i) or (ii) of subsection A occurs, then:</p><p>1. As to any crime occurring or civil cause of action arising in the city before the effective date of the transfer, the circuit court for the former judicial circuit shall have jurisdiction; and</p><p>2. As to any crime occurring or civil cause of action arising in the city on or after the effective date of the transfer involving a matter required by general law to be located in a circuit court, the circuit court for the judicial circuit to which the city was transferred shall have jurisdiction.</p><p>D. All writings authorized by law to be recorded in the circuit court for the city transferred pursuant to clause (ii) of subsection A shall be recorded in the circuit court to which the city was transferred beginning on the effective date of the transfer.</p><p>1980, c. 592, § 15.1-994.1; 1987, c. 624; 1997, c. 587.</p>