# § 54.1-2956 Advisory Board on Respiratory Care; appointment; terms; duties; etc.

<p>A. The Advisory Board on Respiratory Care shall assist the Board in carrying out the provisions of this chapter regarding the qualifications, examination, and regulation of licensed respiratory therapists.</p><p>The Advisory Board shall consist of five members appointed by the Governor as follows: three members shall be at the time of appointment respiratory therapists who have practiced for not less than three years, one member shall be a physician licensed to practice medicine in the Commonwealth, and one member shall be appointed by the Governor from the Commonwealth at large. Beginning July 1, 2011, the Governor's appointments shall be staggered as follows: two members for a term of one year, one member for a term of two years, and two members for a term of three years. Thereafter, appointments shall be for four-year terms.</p><p>Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No person shall be eligible to serve on the Advisory Board for more than two consecutive terms.</p><p>B. The Advisory Board shall, under the authority of the Board, recommend to the Board for its enactment into regulation the criteria for licensure as a respiratory therapist and the standards of professional conduct for holders of licenses.</p><p>The Advisory Board shall also assist in such other matters dealing with respiratory care as the Board may in its discretion direct.</p><p>1985, c. 347, §§ 54-281.12, 54-281.13; 1988, c. 765; 1990, c. 920; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0557'>557</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0302'>302</a>.</p>