# § 6.2-1100 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Account" means any account with a savings institution and includes a checking, time, interest, or savings account.</p><p>"Association" means a savings and loan association or building and loan association that is authorized by law to accept deposits and to hold itself out to the public as engaged in the savings and loan business.</p><p>"Branch office" means an office of a savings institution where, in addition to conducting other business activities of the institution, the institution accepts deposits.</p><p>"Federal financial institution" means a financial institution incorporated or organized in accordance with the laws of the United States.</p><p>"Federal savings institution" means a savings institution incorporated or organized in accordance with the laws of the United States.</p><p>"Financial institution holding company" has the meaning assigned to it in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-700/'>6.2-700</a>.</p><p>"Foreign savings institution" means a savings institution incorporated under the laws of a state other than the Commonwealth, the principal business office of which is located outside the Commonwealth. "Foreign savings institution" does not include a savings institution incorporated under the laws of the United States.</p><p>"Home loan" means a real estate loan the security for which is a lien on real estate comprising a single-family dwelling or a dwelling unit for four or fewer families in the aggregate.</p><p>"Insured savings institution" means a savings institution whose accounts are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or other federal insurance agency.</p><p>"Liquid assets" means (i) cash on hand; (ii) cash on deposit in Federal Home Loan Banks, Federal Reserve Banks, savings institutions, or in commercial banks that is withdrawable upon not more than 30 days' notice and that is not pledged as security for indebtedness; (iii) the liquid asset fund of the United States League of Saving Institutions; (iv) obligations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States; or (v) any other asset that the Commissioner designates as a liquid asset. Any deposits in financial institutions under the control or in the possession of any supervisory authority are not liquid assets.</p><p>"Main office" means the office where a savings institution first commences to do business or, if the savings institution has more than one office, the office designated by the institution's board of directors as the institution's main office.</p><p>"Manufactured building" means a manufactured home or other structure designed for use as a dwelling or business facility that is manufactured and assembled at a location other than the site where such manufactured home or other structure is placed for use as a dwelling or business facility, or both.</p><p>"Member" means a person (i) holding a savings account of a mutual association, (ii) borrowing from a mutual association, (iii) assuming or obligated upon a loan or interest therein held by a mutual association, or (iv) purchasing real estate securing a loan or interest therein held by a mutual association. "Member" includes such persons with a joint and survivorship or other multiple owner or borrower relationship, which persons shall constitute a single membership for purposes of this chapter.</p><p>"Mutual association" means an association that is organized and operated exclusively for the benefit of its members and that does not issue shares of capital stock.</p><p>"Mutual savings institution" means a savings institution that is organized and operated exclusively for the benefit of its members and that does not issue shares of capital stock.</p><p>"Real estate loan" means:</p><p>1. A loan on the security of any instrument, whether a mortgage, deed of trust, or land contract, that makes the interest in real estate described therein, whether in fee or in a leasehold or subleasehold extending or renewable automatically or at the option of the holder, or at the option of the savings institution, for a period of at least 10 years beyond the maturity of the loan, specific security for the payment of the obligations secured by the instrument; or</p><p>2. A loan, or interest therein, secured by cooperative housing units on the security of (i) a security interest in the stock or membership certificate issued to a tenant-stockholder or resident member of a cooperative housing corporation, as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-501/'>13.1-501</a>, coupled with (ii) the assignment by way of security of the borrower's interest in the proprietary lease or other right of tenancy in the property owned by such corporation.</p><p>"Savings account" means an interest-bearing account not subject to withdrawal by check or other negotiable instrument.</p><p>"Savings bank" means a savings institution specifically chartered under the laws of the Commonwealth, another state or a territory of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the United States as a savings bank. The term savings bank does not include a savings and loan association or building and loan association.</p><p>"Savings institution" means a savings and loan association, a building and loan association, or savings bank, whether organized as a capital stock corporation or a nonstock corporation, that is authorized by law to accept deposits and to hold itself out to the public as engaged in the savings institution business.</p><p>"Savings institution holding company" means any person who, directly or indirectly, or acting in concert with one or more other companies or with one or more subsidiaries or affiliates, acquires, owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of the voting shares of a stock savings institution, or which controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of such institution.</p><p>"Service corporation" means a stock corporation, all of the stock of which is owned (i) directly by one or more savings institutions or (ii) indirectly through a subsidiary or subsidiaries of one or more savings institutions.</p><p>"State association" means an association incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"State bank" means a bank incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth and that has its principal business office in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"State savings bank" means a savings bank organized and incorporated under the provisions of this chapter. A state savings bank shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable only to state associations.</p><p>"State savings institution" means a savings institution incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Stock association" means an association that issues shares of capital stock.</p><p>"Stock institution" means a savings institution that issues shares of capital stock.</p><p>"Withdrawal value" means the amount credited to an account less lawful deductions therefrom, as shown by the records of the savings institution.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 6-201.4, 6-201.5; 1960, c. 402; 1966, c. 584, 6.1-129, 6.1-130; 1970, c. 396; 1972, c. 796, § 6.1-195.4; 1975, c. 73; 1978, c. 14; 1980, c. 350; 1982, cc. 80, 224, § 6.1-195.57:1; 1985, c. 425, §§ 6.1-194.2, 6.1-194.40, 6.1-194.87; 1986, c. 500; 1988, c. 536; 1990, c. 3; 1991, cc. 228, 230, §§ 6.1-194.110, 6.1-194.131; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0016'>16</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0026'>26</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0077'>77</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>