# § 9.1-1111 Scientific Advisory Committee; membership.

<p>The Scientific Advisory Committee is hereby established as an advisory board within the meaning of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2100/'>2.2-2100</a>, in the executive branch of state government. The Scientific Advisory Committee (the Committee) shall consist of 13 members, consisting of the Director of the Department, and 12 members appointed by the Governor as follows: a director of a private or federal forensic laboratory located in the Commonwealth; a forensic scientist or any other person, with an advanced degree, who has received substantial education, training, or experience in the subject of laboratory standards or quality assurance regulation and monitoring; a forensic scientist with an advanced degree who has received substantial education, training, or experience in the discipline of molecular biology; a forensic scientist with an advanced degree and having experience in the discipline of population genetics; a scientist with an advanced degree and having experience in the discipline of forensic chemistry; a scientist with an advanced degree and having experience in the discipline of forensic biology; a forensic scientist or any other person, with an advanced degree who has received substantial education, training, or experience in the discipline of trace evidence; a scientist with a doctoral degree and having experience in the discipline of forensic toxicology, who is certified by the American Board of Forensic Toxicologists; a member of the Board of the International Association for Identification when initially appointed; a member of the Board of the Association of Firearms and Toolmark Examiners when initially appointed; a member of the International Association for Chemical Testing; and a member of the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors.</p><p>Members of the Committee initially appointed shall serve the following terms: four members shall serve a term of one year, four members shall serve a term of two years, and four members shall serve a term of four years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for a term of four years. A vacancy other than by expiration of term shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired term.</p><p>Members of the Committee shall be paid reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, and shall receive compensation for their services as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>.</p><p>2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0868'>868</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0102'>102</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0253'>253</a>.</p>