# ยง 54.1-2706 Revocation or suspension; other sanctions.

<p>The Board may refuse to admit a candidate to any examination, refuse to issue a license to any applicant, suspend for a stated period or indefinitely, or revoke any license or censure or reprimand any licensee or place him on probation for such time as it may designate for any of the following causes:</p><p>1. Fraud, deceit or misrepresentation in obtaining a license;</p><p>2. The conviction of any felony or the conviction of any crime involving moral turpitude;</p><p>3. Use of alcohol or drugs to the extent that such use renders him unsafe to practice dentistry or dental hygiene;</p><p>4. Any unprofessional conduct likely to defraud or to deceive the public or patients;</p><p>5. Intentional or negligent conduct in the practice of dentistry or dental hygiene which causes or is likely to cause injury to a patient or patients;</p><p>6. Employing or assisting persons whom he knew or had reason to believe were unlicensed to practice dentistry or dental hygiene;</p><p>7. Publishing or causing to be published in any manner an advertisement relating to his professional practice which (i) is false, deceptive or misleading, (ii) contains a claim of superiority, or (iii) violates regulations promulgated by the Board governing advertising;</p><p>8. Mental or physical incompetence to practice his profession with safety to his patients and the public;</p><p>9. Violating, assisting, or inducing others to violate any provision of this chapter or any Board regulation;</p><p>10. Conducting his practice in a manner contrary to the standards of ethics of dentistry or dental hygiene;</p><p>11. Practicing or causing others to practice in a manner as to be a danger to the health and welfare of his patients or to the public;</p><p>12. Practicing outside the scope of the dentist's or dental hygienist's education, training, and experience;</p><p>13. Performing a procedure subject to certification without such valid certification required by the Board pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2709.1/'>54.1-2709.1</a> and Board regulations; however, procedures performed pursuant to the provisions of subsection A of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2711.1/'>54.1-2711.1</a> as part of an American Dental Association accredited residency program shall not require such certification;</p><p>14. The revocation, suspension or restriction of a license to practice dentistry or dental hygiene in another state, possession or territory of the United States or foreign country; or</p><p>15. The violation of any provision of a state or federal law or regulation relating to manufacturing, distributing, dispensing or administering drugs.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 54-187; 1962, c. 45; 1972, c. 805; 1973, c. 391; 1975, c. 479; 1978, cc. 247, 248; 1984, c. 28; 1988, c. 765; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0662'>662</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0064'>64</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0505'>505</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>.</p>