# ยง 23.1-105 Contracts with certain nonprofit private institutions of higher education.

<p>A. For the purposes of this section:</p><p>"Private college" means a nonprofit private institution of higher education whose primary purpose is to provide collegiate or graduate education and not to provide religious training or theological education.</p><p>"Services" includes a program or course of study offered or approved to be offered by a public institution of higher education or private college; use of professional personnel; use of any real or personal property owned, controlled, or leased for educational or related purposes by a public institution of higher education or private college; study, research, or investigation or similar activity by employees or students, or both, of a public institution of higher education or private college; or any other activity (i) dealing with scientific, technological, humanistic, or other educational or related subjects or (ii) providing public service or student service activities.</p><p>B. The Commonwealth and any of its political subdivisions may contract to obtain from or furnish to private colleges educational or related services.</p><p>C. No contract for services between private colleges and public institutions of higher education or educational agencies of the Commonwealth, including the Board of Education, is valid unless approved by the Council.</p><p>D. Except as provided in subsection C, contracts for services between private colleges and the Commonwealth or any of its political subdivisions may be entered into in any circumstance in which the Commonwealth or its political subdivisions would, by virtue of law, have authority to contract with private contractors for educational or related services and public institutions of higher education. Private colleges shall report such contracts to the Council.</p><p>E. The Council shall provide continuing evaluation of the effectiveness of and make recommendations regarding contracts made pursuant to this section.</p><p>F. The authority to contract for educational or related services includes the authority to accept gifts, donations, and matching funds to facilitate or advance programs.</p><p>G. Unless an appropriation act specifically provides otherwise, all appropriations shall be construed to authorize contracts with private colleges for the provision of educational or related services that may be the subject of or included in the appropriation.</p><p>H. Nothing in this section shall be construed to restrict or prohibit the use of any federal, state, or local funds made available under any federal, state, or local appropriation or grant.</p><p>1975, c. 399, ยง 23-9.10:3; 1991, c. 590; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0709'>709</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>