# ยง 63.2-411 Construction and operation of children's residential facilities.

<p>Subject to approval by the Governor, a local board is authorized and empowered (i) to operate, construct, purchase, renovate or enlarge children's residential facilities for children who are in the custody of such local board by reason of commitment, voluntary entrustment or temporary detention order or (ii) to contract for such services from other counties or cities operating such facilities or from individuals or private corporations whose facilities are licensed by the appropriate state agency. The cost of maintaining children in such facilities through purchase of service contracts shall be established in accordance with regulations of the Board. Any moneys paid by a local board of a county or city to another county or city for services purchased pursuant to this section shall be applied by that county or city to the establishment and operation of such children's residential facilities. Children's residential facilities established pursuant to the provisions of this section shall meet standards prescribed by the Board.</p><p>Within the limits of appropriations of state funds, the Department shall reimburse the local board one half the actual cost of the construction, purchase, renovation or enlargement of each such facility. The Commonwealth shall reimburse the local board for administrative costs of operations of such facilities, including the entire reasonable cost of food, medicines, disinfectants, beds and bedding, utilities, equipment and service maintenance, transportation, staff salaries and fringe benefits, insurance and other necessary supplies in accordance with the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-401/'>63.2-401</a>.</p><p>In the event that a local board requests and receives financial assistance for the costs of the local share of the construction, purchase, renovation or operation of children's residential facilities for children who are in the custody of such local board from any source other than reimbursement provided pursuant to this section, the total financial assistance and reimbursement shall not exceed the total cost of construction, purchase, renovation or operations, and such funds shall not be considered state funds.</p><p>1973, c. 383, ยง 63.1-56.1; 1974, cc. 44, 45; 1977, c. 571; 1978, c. 293; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>.</p>