# ยง 10.1-213 Dedication of natural area preserves.

<p>A. The Director may, in the name of the Department, accept the dedication of natural areas on lands deemed by the Director to qualify as natural area preserves under the provisions of this article. Natural area preserves may be dedicated by voluntary act of the owner. The owner of a qualified natural area may transfer fee simple title or other interest in land to the Commonwealth. Natural area preserves may be acquired by gift, grant, or purchase.</p><p>B. Dedication of a natural preserve shall become effective only upon acceptance of the instrument of dedication by the Director.</p><p>C. The instrument of dedication may:</p><p>1. Contain restrictions and other provisions relating to management, use, development, transfer, and public access, and may contain any other restrictions and provisions as may be necessary or advisable to further the purposes of this article;</p><p>2. Define, consistently with the purposes of this article, the respective rights and duties of the owner and of the Commonwealth and provide procedures to be followed in case of violations of the restrictions;</p><p>3. Recognize and create reversionary rights, transfers upon conditions or with limitations, and gifts over; and</p><p>4. Vary in provisions from one natural area preserve to another in accordance with differences in the characteristics and conditions of the several areas.</p><p>D. Public departments, commissions, boards, counties, municipalities, corporations, and institutions of higher education and all other agencies and instrumentalities of the Commonwealth and its political subdivisions are empowered to dedicate suitable areas within their jurisdiction as natural area preserves.</p><p>E. Subject to the approval of the Governor, the Commonwealth may enter into amendments to the instrument of dedication upon finding that the amendment will not permit an impairment, disturbance, use, or development of the area inconsistent with the provisions of this article. If the fee simple estate in the natural area preserve is not held by the Department under this article, no amendment may be made without the written consent of the owner of the other interests therein.</p><p>1989, c. 553.</p>