# ยง 22.1-349.10 Funding of college partnership laboratory schools.

<p>A. Each college partnership laboratory school shall receive such funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly in accordance with the general appropriation act.</p><p>B. The governing board of a college partnership laboratory school may accept gifts, donations, or grants of any kind and spend such funds in accordance with the conditions prescribed by the donor. However, no gift, donation, or grant shall be accepted by the governing board of a college partnership laboratory school if the conditions for such funds are contrary to law or the terms of the agreement between the Board and the college partnership laboratory school.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the proportionate share of state and federal resources allocated for students with disabilities and school personnel assigned to special education programs shall be directed to college partnership laboratory schools enrolling such students. The proportionate share of moneys allocated under other federal or state categorical aid programs shall be directed to college partnership laboratory schools serving students eligible for such aid.</p><p>D. College partnership laboratory schools are eligible to apply for and receive any federal or state funds otherwise allocated for college partnership laboratory schools.</p><p>E. The collection of any tuition, room and board, and other educational and related fees from students enrolled at a college partnership laboratory school shall comply with Board regulations and shall be credited to the account of such school.</p><p>F. Each college partnership laboratory school is eligible to apply for and receive available funds from the College Partnership Laboratory School Fund and the institution of higher education that establishes the school.</p><p>2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>, ยง 23-299.9; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0176'>176</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0580'>580</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>