# ยง 58.1-3826 (Effective until October 1, 2022) Scope of transient occupancy tax.

<p>A. The transient occupancy tax imposed pursuant to the authority of this article shall be imposed only for the use or possession of any room or space that is suitable or intended for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes.</p><p>B. For any retail sale of accommodations not facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations provider shall collect the tax imposed pursuant to this article, computed on the total price paid for the use or possession of the accommodations, and shall remit the same to the locality and shall be liable for the same.</p><p>C. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations intermediary shall be deemed under this article as a facility making a retail sale of an accommodation. The accommodations intermediary shall collect the tax imposed pursuant to this article, computed on the room charge. When the accommodations are at a hotel, the accommodations intermediary shall remit the taxes on the accommodations fee to the locality and shall remit any remaining taxes to the hotel, which shall remit such taxes to the locality. When the accommodations are at a short-term rental, as defined in ยง 15.2-983, or at any other accommodations, the accommodations intermediary shall remit the taxes on the room charge to the locality.</p><p>D. An accommodations intermediary shall not be liable for taxes under this article remitted to an accommodations provider but that are then not remitted to the locality by the accommodations provider. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, an accommodations provider shall be liable for that portion of the taxes under this article that relate to the discount room charge only to the extent that the accommodations intermediary has remitted such taxes to the accommodations provider.</p><p>E. In any retail sale of any accommodations in which an accommodations intermediary does not facilitate the sale of the accommodations, the accommodations provider shall separately state the amount of the tax in the bill, invoice, or similar documentation and shall add the tax to the total price paid for the use or possession of the accommodations. In any retail sale of any accommodations in which an accommodations intermediary facilitates the sale of the accommodation, the accommodations intermediary shall separately state the amount of the tax on the bill, invoice, or similar documentation and shall add the tax to the room charge; thereafter, such tax shall be a debt from the customer to the accommodations intermediary, recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts.</p><p>2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0020'>20</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0383'>383</a>.</p>