# ยง 29.1-733.14 Effect of possession of certificate of title; judicial process; levy; penalty.

<p>A. Possession of a certificate of title does not by itself provide a right to obtain possession of a watercraft. Garnishment, attachment, levy, replevin, or other judicial process against the certificate is not effective to determine possessory rights to the watercraft. This article does not prohibit enforcement under law of the Commonwealth other than this article of a security interest in, levy on, or foreclosure of a statutory or common-law lien on a watercraft. Absence of an indication of a statutory or common-law lien on a certificate does not invalidate the lien.</p><p>B. A levy made by virtue of an execution, fieri facias, or other proper court order, upon a watercraft for which a certificate of title has been issued by the Department, shall constitute a lien, when the officer making the levy reports to the Department at its principal office, on forms provided by the Department, that the levy has been made and that the vessel levied upon is in the custody of the officer. Should the lien thereafter be satisfied or should the vessel levied upon and seized thereafter be released by the officer, he shall immediately report that fact to the Department at its principal office. Any owner who, after such levy and seizure by an officer and before the report is made by the officer to the Department, fraudulently assigns or transfers his title to or interest in the watercraft, or causes the certificate of title to be assigned or transferred, or causes a security interest to be shown upon such certificate of title, is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0787'>787</a>.</p>