# § 62.1-44.15:69 (For contingent expiration date, see Acts 2016, cc. 68 and 758, as amended by Acts 2017, c. 345) Powers and duties of the Board.

<p>The Board is responsible for carrying out the purposes and provisions of this article and is authorized to:</p><p>1. Provide land use and development and water quality protection information and assistance to the various levels of local, regional, and state government within the Commonwealth.</p><p>2. Consult, advise, and coordinate with the Governor, the Secretary, the General Assembly, other state agencies, regional agencies, local governments, and federal agencies for the purpose of implementing this article.</p><p>3. Provide financial and technical assistance and advice to local governments and to regional and state agencies concerning aspects of land use and development and water quality protection pursuant to this article.</p><p>4. Promulgate regulations pursuant to the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>5. Develop, promulgate, and keep current the criteria required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-44.15:72/'>62.1-44.15:72</a>.</p><p>6. Provide technical assistance and advice or other aid for the development, adoption, and implementation of local comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, subdivision ordinances, and other land use and development and water quality protection measures utilizing criteria established by the Board to carry out the provisions of this article.</p><p>7. Develop procedures for use by local governments to designate Chesapeake Bay Preservation Areas in accordance with the criteria developed pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-44.15:72/'>62.1-44.15:72</a>.</p><p>8. Ensure that local government comprehensive plans, zoning ordinances, and subdivision ordinances are in accordance with the provisions of this article. Determination of compliance shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>9. Make application for federal funds that may become available under federal acts and to transmit such funds when applicable to any appropriate person.</p><p>10. Take administrative and legal actions to ensure compliance by counties, cities, and towns with the provisions of this article including the proper enforcement and implementation of, and continual compliance with, this article.</p><p>11. Perform such other duties and responsibilities related to the use and development of land and the protection of water quality as the Secretary may assign.</p><p>1988, cc. 608, 891, § 10.1-2103; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0266'>266</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0756'>756</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0793'>793</a>.</p>