# § 9.1-111 Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice and Prevention; membership; terms; quorum; compensation and expenses; duties.

<p>A. The Advisory Committee on Juvenile Justice and Prevention (the Advisory Committee) is established as an advisory committee in the executive branch of state government. The Advisory Committee shall have the responsibility for advising and assisting the Board, the Department, all agencies, departments, boards, and institutions of the Commonwealth, and units of local government, or combinations thereof, on matters related to the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency and the administration of juvenile justice in the Commonwealth.</p><p>The membership of the Advisory Committee shall comply with the membership requirements contained in the federal Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act pursuant to 34 U.S.C. § 11133, as amended, and shall consist of the Commissioner of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services; the Commissioner of Social Services; the Director of the Department of Juvenile Justice; the Superintendent of Public Instruction; the Commissioner of Health; one member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules after consideration of the recommendation of the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary; one member of the House Committee on Health, Welfare and Institutions appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates after consideration of the recommendation of the Chairman of the House Committee on Health, Welfare and Institutions; and such number of nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor to comply with the membership range established by such federal act. The Advisory Committee may serve as an advisory committee as may be required by other federal or state laws or programs administered by the Department. Membership shall be adjusted as necessary to fulfill the requirements of such laws or programs.</p><p>Legislative members, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and the agency directors shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. All other members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth and be appointed by the Governor for a term of four years. However, no member shall serve beyond the time when he holds the office or employment by reason of which he was initially eligible for appointment.</p><p>The Advisory Committee shall elect its chairman and vice-chairman from among its members.</p><p>B. Gubernatorial appointed members of the Advisory Committee shall not be eligible to serve for more than two consecutive full terms. Three or more years within a four-year period shall be deemed a full term. Any vacancy on the Advisory Committee shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, but for the unexpired term.</p><p>C. Twelve members of the Advisory Committee, including voting and nonvoting members, shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>The Advisory Committee may adopt bylaws for its operation.</p><p>D. Members of the Advisory Committee shall not receive compensation but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of the expenses shall be provided from federal or state funds received for such purposes by the Department of Criminal Justice Services.</p><p>E. The Advisory Committee shall have the duty and responsibility to:</p><p>1. Review the operation of the juvenile justice system and delinquency prevention activities in the Commonwealth, including facilities and programs, and prepare appropriate reports;</p><p>2. Review statewide plans, conduct studies, and make recommendations on needs and priorities for the development and improvement of the juvenile justice system and delinquency prevention in the Commonwealth; and</p><p>3. Advise on all matters related to the federal Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-415, as amended), and recommend such actions on behalf of the Commonwealth as may seem desirable to secure benefits of that or other federal programs for delinquency prevention and the administration of juvenile justice.</p><p>F. The Department of Criminal Justice Services shall provide staff support to the Advisory Committee. Upon request, each administrative entity or collegial body within the executive branch of the state government shall cooperate with the Advisory Committee as it carries out its responsibilities.</p><p>1981, c. 632, § 9-168; 1984, cc. 30, 515, 538, 734; 1986, c. 519; 1987, c. 144; 1989, c. 733; 1990, c. 98; 1991, cc. 59, 685; 1993, c. 415; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0020'>20</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0226'>226</a>; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0032'>32</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0795'>795</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0883'>883</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0495'>495</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0210'>210</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0419'>419</a>.</p>