# § 25.1-240 Distribution of money paid into court.

<p>A. Upon the award being paid into court and the confirmation of the report in the manner provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/25.1-237/'>25.1-237</a>, the interest or estate of the owner or owners in the property taken or damaged shall terminate and they shall have such interest or estate in the fund and any interest accrued thereon so paid into court as they had in the property so taken or damaged. All liens by a deed of trust, judgment or otherwise upon such property or any interest therein shall be transferred to the fund so paid into court. If the court is satisfied that the persons having an interest therein are before the court, the court shall make such distribution of such money and any interest accrued thereon as to it may seem proper, having due regard to the interest of all persons therein, and in what proportions such money is properly payable.</p><p>B. If it appears from the record in the proceedings or otherwise that the person or persons or classes of persons in the proceedings are vested with the superior right or claim of title in the land or estate or interest therein condemned, or in the proceeds of the award of just compensation, and that the record does not disclose any denial or dispute thereof, by any person or party in interest, the court may direct that the fund and any interest accrued thereon, after the payment therefrom of any taxes, be disbursed and distributed accordingly among the persons entitled thereto or to such person who they may by writing direct.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B, the court may inquire into the rights or claims of any persons appearing to be infants, incapacitated or under any other legal incapacity, independent of any statement in the record.</p><p>D. Any order for distribution shall conserve and protect the rights of such parties in and to the fund and any interest accrued thereon.</p><p>E. The cost of a commissioner in chancery appointed by the court to assist in making the proper distribution in cases of legal disability as herein set forth may be taxed as a cost of the proceedings, to be paid by the petitioner.</p><p>Code 1919, § 4374; 1942, p. 339; Code 1950, § 25-26; 1962, c. 426, § 25-46.28; 1964, c. 590; 1979, c. 494; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0801'>801</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0940'>940</a>.</p>