# ยง 22.1-365 Membership; terms; quorum; meetings.

<p>A. The Board shall have a total membership of 16 members that shall consist of 10 nonlegislative citizen members and six ex officio members. Nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor shall represent or have STEM experience with the public and private sector, industry partners, environmental organizations, and both formal and informal STEM educational organizations. The Director of the Science Museum of Virginia, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and the Director of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, or their designees, shall serve ex officio with full voting privileges. The Secretary of Education; the Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion for the Commonwealth; and the Chief Workforce Development Officer for the Commonwealth, or their designees, shall serve ex officio without voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Ex officio members of the Board shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. No nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.</p><p>C. The Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0291'>291</a>.</p>