# ยง 30-415 (Expires July 1, 2024) Membership; terms.

<p>The Commission shall have a total of 19 members, consisting of 10 legislative members, eight nonlegislative citizen members, and one ex officio member. Members shall be appointed as follows: six members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; four members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; seven nonlegislative citizen members, at least one of whom shall represent each of the seven federally recognized Tribal Nations located in the Commonwealth, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates with the advice and consent of each such federally recognized Tribal Nation; and one nonlegislative citizen member, who shall represent the Commonwealth's scholarly community, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules. The Secretary of the Commonwealth, or his designee, shall serve ex officio with voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Commission shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>Legislative members and the ex officio member of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of two years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Legislative members and nonlegislative citizen members may be reappointed. However, no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership, who shall be members of the General Assembly.</p><p>2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0788'>788</a>.</p>