# ยง 9.1-209 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Cigarette" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1031/'>58.1-1031</a>.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Taxation.</p><p>"Director" means the Executive Director of the Department of Fire Programs.</p><p>"Importer" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in 26 U.S.C. ยง 5702 (k).</p><p>"Manufacturer" means (i) a person who manufactures or otherwise produces, or causes to be manufactured or produced, cigarettes intended for sale in the Commonwealth, including cigarettes intended for sale in the United States through an importer; (ii) the first purchaser anywhere that intends to resell in the United States cigarettes that the original manufacturer or maker does not intend for sale in the United States; or (iii) the successor to a person listed in clause (i) or (ii).</p><p>"Package" has the same meaning ascribed thereto in 15 U.S.C. ยง 1332 (4).</p><p>"Quality control and quality assurance program" means laboratory procedures implemented to ensure that operator bias, systematic and nonsystematic methodological errors, and equipment-related problems do not affect the results of the testing, and the testing repeatability remains within the required repeatability value for any test trial used to certify cigarettes under this chapter.</p><p>"Repeatability" means the range of values within which the repeat results of cigarette test trials from a single laboratory will fall 95 percent of the time.</p><p>"Retailer" means a person who (i) sells cigarettes to consumers through vending machines on fewer than 40 premises; (ii) otherwise sells cigarettes to consumers; or (iii) holds cigarettes for sale to consumers.</p><p>"Vending machine operator" means a person who (i) holds cigarettes for sale to consumers through vending machines on 40 or more premises or (ii) sells cigarettes to consumers through vending machines on 40 or more premises.</p><p>"Wholesaler" means a person who (i) holds cigarettes for sale to another person for resale or (ii) sells cigarettes to another person for resale.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0370'>370</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>.</p>