# ยง 2.2-4007.04:01 Notice required of certain departments.

<p>A. At or prior to the time a new regulation is posted to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall, the Department of Medical Assistance Services shall provide direct notice to stakeholders affected by the new regulatory change that such change has been initiated. At the time that the final stage of a regulation is posted to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall, the Department shall provide direct notice to stakeholders affected by the regulatory change that such final stage has been posted.</p><p>B. At the time a change to a provider manual is being developed, the Department of Medical Assistance Services shall provide direct notice to stakeholders affected by the provider manual change that such change has been initiated. The Department shall post a notice of such change to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall, to include a public comment forum, for a period of 30 days. Such notice shall include a description of the change and provide contact information for the Department's designated contact person.</p><p>C. At or prior to the time a new regulation relating to licensed providers is posted to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services shall provide direct notice to licensed providers affected by the new regulatory change that such change has been initiated.</p><p>D. At the time that the final stage of a regulation is posted to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services shall provide direct notice to licensed providers affected by the regulatory change that such final stage has been posted.</p><p>E. At the time any change to guidance documents related to licensure requirements is being developed, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services shall provide direct notice to licensed providers affected by the change that such change has been initiated. The Department shall post the proposed change to the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall, to include a public comment forum, for a period of 30 days. Such notice shall include a description of the change and provide contact information for the Department's designated contact person. If it is anticipated that the change shall have an impact on staffing or payment matters for the affected stakeholders, the direct notice to stakeholders shall note this fact and request specific comments regarding an appropriate time frame for the implementation of such changes.</p><p>2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0599'>599</a>.</p>