# ยง 55.1-2161 Resales of cooperative interests.

<p>A. Except in the case of a sale where delivery of a public offering statement is required, or unless exempt under subsection B of ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-2153/'>55.1-2153</a>, a proprietary lessee shall furnish to a purchaser before execution of any contract for sale of a cooperative interest, or otherwise before conveyance, a copy of the declaration, the bylaws, the rules and regulations of the association, and a certificate containing:</p><p>1. A statement disclosing the effect on the proposed disposition of any right of first refusal or other restraint on the free alienability of the cooperative interest;</p><p>2. A statement setting forth the amount of the monthly common expense assessment and any unpaid common expense or special assessment currently due and payable from the selling proprietary lessee;</p><p>3. A statement of any other fees payable by proprietary lessees;</p><p>4. A statement of any capital expenditures anticipated by the association for the current and next two succeeding fiscal years;</p><p>5. The current reserve study report or a summary of such report and a statement of the status and amount of any reserve or replacement fund and of any portions of those reserves designated by the association for any specified projects;</p><p>6. The most recent regularly prepared balance sheet and income and expense statement, if any, of the association, including the amount of any debt owed by the association or to be assumed by the association, inclusive of principal and any accrued interest, loan fees, and other similar charges;</p><p>7. The current operating budget of the association;</p><p>8. A statement of any unsatisfied judgments against the association and the status of any pending actions in which the association is a defendant;</p><p>9. A statement describing any insurance coverage provided for the benefit of proprietary lessees;</p><p>10. A statement as to whether the executive board has knowledge that any alterations or improvements to the unit or to the limited common elements assigned to such unit violate any provision of the declaration;</p><p>11. A statement as to whether the executive board has knowledge of any violations of the health or building codes with respect to the unit, the limited common elements assigned to such unit, or any other portion of the cooperative;</p><p>12. A statement of the remaining term of any leasehold estate affecting the cooperative and the provisions governing any extension or renewal of such leasehold;</p><p>13. Except where no public offering statement was prepared, a statement that the public offering statement and any amendments to the public offering statement are records of the association available for inspection by the purchaser;</p><p>14. An accountant's statement, if any was prepared, as to the deductibility for federal income taxes purposes by the proprietary lessee of real estate taxes and interest paid by the association;</p><p>15. A statement of any restrictions in the declaration affecting the amount that may be received by a proprietary lessee upon sale, condemnation, or loss to the unit or the cooperative on termination of the cooperative; and</p><p>16. Certification, if applicable, that the proprietary lessees' association has filed with the Common Interest Community Board the annual report required by ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-2182/'>55.1-2182</a>; such certification shall indicate the filing number assigned by the Common Interest Community Board and the expiration date of such filing.</p><p>B. The association, within 10 days after a request by a proprietary lessee, shall furnish a certificate containing the information necessary to enable the proprietary lessee to comply with this section. A proprietary lessee providing a certificate pursuant to subsection A is not liable to the purchaser for any erroneous information provided by the association and included in the certificate.</p><p>C. A purchaser is not liable for any unpaid assessment or fee greater than the amount set forth in the certificate prepared by the association. A proprietary lessee is not liable to a purchaser for the failure or delay of the association to provide the certificate in a timely manner, but the purchase contract is voidable by the purchaser until five days after the certificate is provided or until conveyance, whichever occurs first.</p><p>1982, c. 277, ยง 55-484; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0222'>222</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0463'>463</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0242'>242</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0436'>436</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>