# § 38.2-1035 Domestic insurers to maintain minimum capital and surplus; proceedings by Commission if impairment found.

<p>A. Each domestic insurer shall maintain at all times the minimum surplus if a mutual insurer, and the minimum capital and surplus if a stock insurer, required by §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1028/'>38.2-1028</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1029/'>38.2-1029</a> or § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1030/'>38.2-1030</a>. If the Commission finds that (i) the minimum capital and surplus of a domestic stock insurer is impaired or (ii) the minimum surplus of a domestic mutual insurer is impaired, the Commission shall issue an order requiring the insurer to eliminate the impairment within a period not exceeding ninety days. The Commission may by order served upon the insurer prohibit the insurer from issuing any new policies while the impairment exists.</p><p>B. Any domestic mutual insurer may make an assessment upon its assessable members for an amount that will provide funds to cover all or any part of the impairment. However, no member shall be liable for an assessment exceeding the limit specified in his policy, and no assessment shall be made upon any member under a nonassessable policy. The assessment shall be made upon each assessable member in proportion to the liability as expressed in the policy. With the prior approval of the Commission, the deficiency may be made up from advances or borrowed funds and subject to the restrictions provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1034/'>38.2-1034</a> for obtaining guaranty funds.</p><p>C. If at the expiration of the designated period the insurer has not satisfied the Commission that the impairment has been eliminated, an order for the rehabilitation or liquidation of the insurer may be entered as provided in Chapter 15 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1500/'>38.2-1500</a> et seq.) of this title.</p><p>Code 1950, § 38-511; 1952, c. 317, §§ 38.1-90, 38.1-93; 1966, c. 580; 1977, c. 322; 1986, c. 562.</p>