# ยง 54.1-3424 Suspension or revocation of registration, license or permit; limitation to particular controlled substance; controlled substances placed under seal; sale of perishables and forfeiture; notification to DEA.

<p>A. A registration to manufacture, distribute, or dispense a controlled substance may be suspended or revoked by the Board upon a finding that the registrant:</p><p>1. Has furnished false or fraudulent material information in an application filed under this chapter;</p><p>2. Has been convicted of a felony under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;</p><p>3. Has had his federal registration to manufacture, distribute or dispense controlled substances suspended or revoked;</p><p>4. Has violated or cooperated with others in violating any provision of this chapter or regulations of the Board relating to the manufacture, distribution or dispensing of controlled substances.</p><p>B. The Board may limit revocation or suspension of a registration to the particular controlled substance with respect to which grounds for revocation or suspension exist.</p><p>C. If the Board summarily suspends, suspends, or revokes a registration, license, permit, or certificate, all controlled substances and prescription devices owned or possessed pursuant to the registration, license, permit, or certificate may be placed under seal by the Board or an authorized agent of the Board as of the effective date of the order of summary suspension, suspension, or revocation. The Board or an authorized agent of the board shall perform an inventory of the controlled substances and prescription devices placed under seal. The controlled substances and prescription devices under seal shall remain in a secured manner on the premises at the previously authorized address of the registration, license, permit, or certificate. No person shall access or relocate such controlled substances and prescription devices without authorization from the Board. The registrant, licensee, permittee, or certificate holder shall ensure the controlled substances and prescription devices remain securely under seal at all times with no unauthorized access.</p><p>Following the conclusion of all appeals, if any, or the deadline to file an appeal, if none are filed, the controlled substances and prescription devices shall be subject to forfeiture. The Board shall direct the owner to appropriately transfer or dispose of the sealed controlled substances and prescription devices under the supervision of an authorized agent, or the controlled substances and devices shall be forfeited, seized, and destroyed by the Board, the authorized agent of the Board, or any law-enforcement officer. Costs associated with the storage and destruction of the seized substances and devices shall be at the expense of the owner of such.</p><p>Prior to forfeiture, the owner of the controlled substances or prescription devices may request permission from the Board to transfer the sealed controlled substances and prescription devices, at the owner's expense and under the supervision of an authorized agent, to an entity authorized to possess or destroy such substances or devices.</p><p>D. Controlled substances and prescription devices that have been abandoned and are stored at a location that is not authorized for the storage of such substances and devices shall be considered contraband. The Board, an authorized agent of the Board, or any law-enforcement officer may seize and destroy such substances and devices. Costs associated with the storage and destruction of the seized substances and devices shall be at the expense of the owner of such substances and devices, if known.</p><p>E. The Board shall promptly notify the DEA of all orders suspending or revoking registration and all forfeitures of controlled substances.</p><p>1972, c. 798, ยง 54-524.47:4; 1988, c. 765; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0468'>468</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0496'>496</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0490'>490</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0094'>94</a>.</p>