# ยง 44-102.2 Virginia Military Family Relief Fund established.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Military Family Relief Fund (the Fund). The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller and administered by the Office of the Adjutant General for the purposes set forth herein. All moneys as may be appropriated by the General Assembly, private gifts, grants, or donations contributed to the Fund, and revenues received by the Commonwealth for the Fund pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-344.3/'>58.1-344.3</a> shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of assisting members of the Virginia National Guard and Virginia residents who are members of the reserves of the armed forces of the United States who have been called to extended federal active duty for periods in excess of 90 days and missions in support of Virginia civil authorities, including state active duty and federal defense support to civil authority missions, for periods in excess of 30 days, and their families, with living expenses including, but not limited to food, housing, utilities, and medical services. Assistance may be provided from the Fund from the date of entry into active duty until 180 days after release from active duty. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Adjutant General.</p><p>B. The Adjutant General shall submit an annual report to the Governor and the chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations of the General Assembly. The report shall detail:</p><p>1. The expenditures of the Fund, including the amount of awards provided from the Fund to each branch of service, the amount of individual and family assistance provided, the qualifications of the recipients, and the balance available in the Fund for future disbursements; and</p><p>2. The name, address, rank, branch of service, deployment location, and amount of financial assistance provided to each recipient. The information provided under this subdivision that identifies a recipient or members of the recipient's family or the deployment location of any member of the Virginia National Guard or the reserves of the armed forces of the United States shall be confidential and shall not be subject to public disclosure.</p><p>2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0103'>103</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0479'>479</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0073'>73</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0911'>911</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0320'>320</a>.</p>