# § 6.2-1800 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Affiliate" means a person related to a licensee by common ownership or control, or any employee or agent of a licensee.</p><p>"Annual percentage rate" has the same meaning as in the federal Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. § 1601 et seq.) and its implementing regulations, as they may be amended from time to time. All fees and charges payable directly or indirectly by a borrower to a licensee as a condition to a loan, including interest and the monthly maintenance fees authorized under § <a href='/vacode/6.2-1817/'>6.2-1817</a>, shall be included in the computation of the annual percentage rate.</p><p>"Check" means a draft drawn on the account of an individual at a depository institution.</p><p>"Depository institution" means a bank, savings institution, or credit union.</p><p>"Interest" means all charges payable directly or indirectly by a borrower to a licensee as a condition to a loan, including fees, service charges, and renewal charges, and any ancillary product sold in connection with a loan, but does not include the monthly maintenance fees, deposit item return fees, or late charges authorized under § <a href='/vacode/6.2-1817/'>6.2-1817</a>.</p><p>"Licensee" means a person to whom a license has been issued under this chapter.</p><p>"Loan amount" means the principal amount of a loan, exclusive of fees or charges.</p><p>"Principal" means any person who, directly or indirectly, owns or controls (i) 10 percent or more of the outstanding stock of a stock corporation or (ii) a 10 percent or greater interest in a nonstock corporation or a limited liability company.</p><p>"Short-term loan" means a loan made pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0897'>897</a>, § 6.1-444; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0571'>571</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1215'>1215</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1258'>1258</a>.</p>