# ยง 58.1-908 Nonpayment of tax; lien for unpaid taxes; certificate of release from lien.

<p>A. A lien shall arise as follows upon all property, real or personal, located in the Commonwealth of Virginia, of every decedent having a taxable estate who fails to pay the tax imposed by this chapter:</p><p>1. In the case of a nonresident decedent having a taxable estate a lien shall not arise automatically upon the death of the decedent.</p><p>2. In the case of a resident or nonresident decedent, such lien shall attach to the personal estate of the decedent only upon the Department's filing a memorandum in the clerk's office of the county or city wherein the decedent resided, and to the real estate only upon the filing of a memorandum in the clerk's office of the county or city wherein such real estate is located.</p><p>Such lien, once it attaches, shall be enforceable for a period not to exceed ten years from the date of death of the decedent.</p><p>B. Such part of the property of a decedent as may at the time be subject to the lien provided for under subsection A shall be divested of such lien to the extent used for payment of charges against the estate or expenses of its administration allowed by the court having jurisdiction thereof.</p><p>C. Such part of the personal property of a decedent as may at the time be subject to the lien provided for under subsection A shall be divested of such lien upon the conveyance or transfer of such property to a purchaser or holder of a security interest for an adequate and full consideration and such lien shall then attach to the proceeds received for such property from such purchaser or holder of a security interest. Real property shall not be divested of such lien except as provided in subsections B and D of this section.</p><p>D. When any lien under this section has attached and the Department is satisfied that the tax liability, if any, of the estate has been fully discharged, the Department shall issue a certificate releasing all property of such estate from the lien herein imposed; or, if the Department is satisfied that the tax liability of the estate has been provided for, it shall issue a certificate releasing any surplus property of such estate from the lien herein imposed.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-238.9; 1978, c. 838; 1979, c. 567; 1984, c. 675; 1987, c. 373.</p>