# ยง 54.1-2713 (Effective until July 1, 2025) Licenses to teach dentistry; renewals.

<p>A. Upon payment of the prescribed fee and provided that no grounds exist to deny licensure pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2706/'>54.1-2706</a>, the Board may grant, without examination, a faculty license to teach dentistry in a dental program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association to any applicant who meets one of the following qualifications:</p><p>1. Is a graduate of a dental school or college or the dental department of an institution of higher education, has a current unrestricted license to practice dentistry in at least one other United States jurisdiction, and has never been licensed to practice dentistry in the Commonwealth;</p><p>2. Is a graduate of a dental school or college or the dental department of an institution of higher education, has completed an advanced dental education program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association, and has never been licensed to practice dentistry in the Commonwealth; or</p><p>3. Is a graduate of a dental school or college or the dental department of an institution of higher education in a foreign country and has been granted a certification letter from the dean or program director of an accredited dental program confirming that the applicant has clinical competency and clinical experience that meet the credentialing standards of the dental school with which the applicant is to be affiliated.</p><p>B. The dean or program director of the accredited dental program shall provide to the Board verification that the applicant is being hired by the program and shall include an assessment of the applicant's clinical competency and clinical experience that qualifies the applicant for a faculty license.</p><p>C. The holder of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be entitled to perform all activities that a person licensed to practice dentistry would be entitled to perform and that are part of his faculty duties, including all patient care activities associated with teaching, research, and the delivery of patient care, which take place only within educational facilities owned or operated by or affiliated with the dental school or program. A licensee who is qualified based on educational requirements for a specialty board certification shall only practice in the specialty for which he is qualified. A license issued pursuant to this section shall not authorize the holder to practice dentistry in nonaffiliated clinics or in private practice settings.</p><p>D. Any license issued under this section shall expire on June 30 of the second year after its issuance or shall terminate when the licensee leaves employment at the accredited dental program. Such license may be renewed annually thereafter as long as the accredited program certifies to the licensee's continuing employment.</p><p>1975, c. 479, ยง 54-175.1; 1976, c. 327; 1988, c. 765; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0505'>505</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0020'>20</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0116'>116</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0145'>145</a>.</p>