# ยง 22.1-349.5 College partnership laboratory school application.

<p>A. Any public institution of higher education or private institution of higher education that has a teacher education program approved by the Board may submit an application for formation of a college partnership laboratory school.</p><p>B. Each college partnership laboratory school application shall provide or describe thoroughly all of the following essential elements of the proposed school plan:</p><p>1. An executive summary;</p><p>2. The mission and vision of the proposed college partnership laboratory school, including identification of the targeted student population;</p><p>3. The proposed location of the school;</p><p>4. The grades to be served each year for the full term of the contract;</p><p>5. Minimum, planned, and maximum enrollment per grade per year for the term of the contract;</p><p>6. Background information on the proposed founding governing board members and, if identified, the proposed school leadership and management team;</p><p>7. The school's proposed calendar and sample daily schedule;</p><p>8. A description of the academic program aligned with state standards;</p><p>9. A description of the school's educational program, including the type of learning environment, such as classroom-based or independent study; class size and structure; curriculum overview; and teaching methods;</p><p>10. The school's plan for using internal and external assessments to measure and report student progress in accordance with the Standards of Learning;</p><p>11. The school's plans for identifying and successfully serving students with disabilities, students who are English language learners, students who are academically behind, and gifted students, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations;</p><p>12. A description of co-curricular and extracurricular programs and how they will be funded and delivered;</p><p>13. Plans and timelines for student recruitment and enrollment, including lottery procedures if sufficient space is unavailable;</p><p>14. The school's student disciplinary policies, including disciplinary policies for special education students;</p><p>15. An organization chart that clearly presents the school's organizational structure, including lines of authority and reporting between the governing board, staff, any related bodies such as advisory bodies or parent and teacher councils, the Board, and any external organizations that will play a role in managing the school;</p><p>16. A clear description of the roles and responsibilities for the governing board, the school's leadership and management team, and any other entities shown in the organization chart;</p><p>17. A staffing chart for the school's first year and a staffing plan for the term of the contract;</p><p>18. Plans for recruiting and developing school leadership and staff;</p><p>19. The school's leadership and teacher employment policies, including performance evaluation plans;</p><p>20. A plan for the placement of college partnership laboratory school students, teachers, and employees upon termination or revocation of the contract;</p><p>21. Explanation of any partnerships or contractual relationships central to the school's operations or mission;</p><p>22. The school's plans for providing transportation, food service, and all other significant operational or ancillary services;</p><p>23. Opportunities and expectations for parent involvement;</p><p>24. A detailed school start-up plan that identifies tasks, timelines, and responsible individuals;</p><p>25. A description of the school's financial plan and policies, including financial controls and audit requirements;</p><p>26. A description of the insurance coverage that the school will obtain;</p><p>27. Start-up and five-year budgets with clearly stated assumptions;</p><p>28. Start-up and first-year cash-flow projections with clearly stated assumptions;</p><p>29. Evidence of anticipated fundraising contributions, if claimed in the application;</p><p>30. A sound facilities plan, including backup or contingency plans if appropriate; and</p><p>31. Assurances that the college partnership laboratory school (i) is nonreligious in its programs, admission policies, employment practices, and all other operations and (ii) does not charge tuition, except as described in subsection E of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-349.3/'>22.1-349.3</a>.</p><p>C. The purposes of the college partnership laboratory school application are to present the proposed school's academic and operational vision and plans, demonstrate the applicant's capacities to execute the proposed vision and plans, and provide the Board with a clear basis for assessing the applicant's plans and capacities. An approved college partnership laboratory school application shall not serve as the school's contract. Within 90 days of approval of a college partnership laboratory school application, the Board and the governing board of the approved school shall execute a contract that clearly sets forth the academic and operational performance expectations and measures by which the college partnership laboratory school will be judged and the administrative relationship between the Board and the college partnership laboratory school, including each party's rights and duties. The performance expectations and measures set forth in the contract shall include applicable federal and state accountability requirements. The performance provisions may be refined or amended by mutual agreement after the college partnership laboratory school is operating and has collected baseline achievement data for its enrolled students.</p><p>2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>, ยง 23-299.4; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0176'>176</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0580'>580</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>