# ยง 3.2-1000 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Candidate species" means those species formally recommended by the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation or other reliable data sources in writing to and accepted by the Commissioner for presentation to the Board for listing under this chapter.</p><p>"Endangered species" means any species or variety of plant life or insect life determined by the Board to be in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant part of its range other than a species determined by the Commissioner not to be in the best interest of the welfare of man.</p><p>"Insect" or "insect life" means any species of the class Insecta.</p><p>"Plant" or "plant life" means any member of the plant kingdom, including spores, leaves, stems, branches, flowers, seeds, roots, and other parts or products thereof.</p><p>"Proposed species" means any candidate species authorized by the Board for consideration for listing as threatened or endangered under the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>"Species" includes any species or variety of plant life or insects.</p><p>"Take" means, in reference to plants and insects, to collect, pick, cut, or dig up for the purpose of resale.</p><p>"Threatened species" means any species determined by the Board to be likely to become an endangered species within the foreseeable future throughout all or a significant portion of its native range.</p><p>1979, c. 372, ยง 3.1-1021; 1985, c. 326; 1989, c. 553; 1990, c. 369; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>