# § 54.1-500 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Accredited asbestos training program" means a training program that has been approved by the Board to provide training for individuals to engage in asbestos abatement, conduct asbestos inspections, prepare management plans, prepare project designs or act as project monitors.</p><p>"Accredited lead training program" means a training program that has been approved by the Board to provide training for individuals to engage in lead-based paint activities.</p><p>"Accredited renovation training program" means a training program that has been approved by the Board to provide training for individuals to engage in renovation or dust clearance sampling.</p><p>"Asbestos" means the asbestiform varieties of actinolite, amosite, anthophyllite, chrysotile, crocidolite, and tremolite.</p><p>"Asbestos analytical laboratory license" means an authorization issued by the Board to perform phase contrast, polarized light, or transmission electron microscopy on material known or suspected to contain asbestos.</p><p>"Asbestos contractor's license" means an authorization issued by the Board permitting a person to enter into contracts to perform an asbestos abatement project.</p><p>"Asbestos-containing materials" or "ACM" means any material or product which contains more than 1.0 percent asbestos or such other percentage as established by EPA final rule.</p><p>"Asbestos inspector's license" means an authorization issued by the Board permitting a person to perform on-site investigations to identify, classify, record, sample, test and prioritize by exposure potential asbestos-containing materials.</p><p>"Asbestos management plan" means a program designed to control or abate any potential risk to human health from asbestos.</p><p>"Asbestos management planner's license" means an authorization issued by the Board permitting a person to develop or alter an asbestos management plan.</p><p>"Asbestos project" or "asbestos abatement project" means an activity involving job set-up for containment, removal, encapsulation, enclosure, encasement, renovation, repair, construction or alteration of an asbestos-containing material. An asbestos project or asbestos abatement project shall not include nonfriable asbestos-containing roofing, flooring and siding materials which when installed, encapsulated or removed do not become friable.</p><p>"Asbestos project designer's license" means an authorization issued by the Board permitting a person to design an asbestos abatement project.</p><p>"Asbestos project monitor's license" means an authorization issued by the Board permitting a person to monitor an asbestos project, subject to Department regulations.</p><p>"Asbestos supervisor" means any person so designated by an asbestos contractor who provides on-site supervision and direction to the workers engaged in asbestos projects.</p><p>"Asbestos worker's license" means an authorization issued by the Board permitting an individual to work on an asbestos project.</p><p>"Board" means the Virginia Board for Asbestos, Lead, and Home Inspectors.</p><p>"Dust clearance sampling" means an on-site collection of dust or other debris that is present after the completion of a renovation to determine the presence of lead-based paint hazards and the provisions of a report explaining the results.</p><p>"Dust sampling technician" means an individual licensed by the Board to perform dust clearance sampling.</p><p>"Friable" means that the material when dry may be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure and includes previously nonfriable material after such previously nonfriable material becomes damaged to the extent that when dry it may be crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder by hand pressure.</p><p>"Home inspection" means any inspection of a residential building for compensation conducted by a licensed home inspector. A home inspection shall include a written evaluation of the readily accessible components of a residential building, including heating, cooling, plumbing, and electrical systems; structural components; foundation; roof; masonry structure; exterior and interior components; and other related residential housing components. A home inspection may be limited in scope as provided in a home inspection contract, provided that such contract is not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or the regulations of the Board. For purposes of this chapter, residential building energy analysis alone, as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-1144/'>54.1-1144</a>, shall not be considered a home inspection.</p><p>"Home inspector" means a person who meets the criteria of education, experience, and testing required by this chapter and regulations of the Board and who has been licensed by the Board to perform home inspections.</p><p>"Lead abatement" means any measure or set of measures designed to permanently eliminate lead-based paint hazards, including lead-contaminated dust or soil.</p><p>"Lead-based paint" means paint or other surface coatings that contain lead equal to or in excess of 1.0 milligrams per square centimeter or more than 0.5 percent by weight.</p><p>"Lead-based paint activity" means lead inspection, lead risk assessment, lead project design and abatement of lead-based paint and lead-based paint hazards, including lead-contaminated dust and lead-contaminated soil.</p><p>"Lead-contaminated dust" means surface dust that contains an area or mass concentration of lead at or in excess of levels identified by the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to § 403 of TSCA (15 U.S.C. § 2683).</p><p>"Lead-contaminated soil" means bare soil that contains lead at or in excess of levels identified by the Environmental Protection Agency.</p><p>"Lead contractor" means a person who has met the Board's requirements and has been issued a license by the Board to enter into contracts to perform lead abatements.</p><p>"Lead inspection" means a surface-by-surface investigation to determine the presence of lead-based paint and the provisions of a report explaining the results of the investigation.</p><p>"Lead inspector" means an individual who has been licensed by the Board to conduct lead inspections and abatement clearance testing.</p><p>"Lead project design" means any descriptive form written as instructions or drafted as a plan describing the construction or setting up of a lead abatement project area and the work practices to be utilized during the lead abatement project.</p><p>"Lead project designer" means an individual who has been licensed by the Board to prepare lead project designs.</p><p>"Lead risk assessment" means (i) an on-site investigation to determine the existence, nature, severity and location of lead-based paint hazards and (ii) the provision of a report by the individual or the firm conducting the risk assessment, explaining the results of the investigation and options for reducing lead-based paint hazards.</p><p>"Lead risk assessor" means an individual who has been licensed by the Board to conduct lead inspections, lead risk assessments and abatement clearance testing.</p><p>"Lead supervisor" means an individual who has been licensed by the Board to supervise lead abatements.</p><p>"Lead worker" or "lead abatement worker" means an individual who has been licensed by the Board to perform lead abatement.</p><p>"Person" means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association or any other individual or entity.</p><p>"Principal instructor" means the individual who has the primary responsibility for organizing and teaching an accredited asbestos training program, an accredited lead training program, an accredited renovation training program, or any combination thereof.</p><p>"Renovation" means the modification of any existing structure or portion thereof, for compensation, that results in the disturbance of painted surfaces, unless that activity is (i) performed as a part of a lead abatement or (ii) limited in scope to the site work or remediation as referenced in the definition of contractor in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-1100/'>54.1-1100</a>. As used in this definition, "compensation" shall include the receipt of (a) pay for work performed, such as that paid to contractors and subcontractors; (b) wages, including but not limited to those paid to employees of contractors, building owners, property management companies, child-occupied facilities operators, state and local government agencies, and nonprofit organizations; and (c) rent for housing constructed before January 1, 1978, or child-occupied facilities in public or commercial building space.</p><p>"Renovation contractor" means a person who has met the Board's requirements and has been issued a license by the Board to conduct renovations.</p><p>"Renovator" means an individual who has been issued a license by the Board to perform renovations or to direct others who perform renovations.</p><p>"Residential building" means, for the purposes of home inspection, a structure consisting of one to four dwelling units used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied, for residential purposes.</p><p>"Training manager" means the individual responsible for administering a training program and monitoring the performance of instructors for an accredited asbestos training, accredited lead training program or accredited renovation training program.</p><p>1987, c. 579, § 54-145.4; 1988, cc. 765, 802; 1989, c. 397; 1990, cc. 49, 73, 823; 1992, c. 152; 1993, cc. 499, 660; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0185'>185</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0911'>911</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0076'>76</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0176'>176</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0180'>180</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0846'>846</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0885'>885</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0739'>739</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0723'>723</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0358'>358</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0819'>819</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0161'>161</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0436'>436</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0527'>527</a>.</p>