# ยง 22.1-367 Powers and duties of the Board; acceptance of gifts and grants.

<p>A. The Virginia STEM Education Advisory Board shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. Create a unified vision regarding STEM education initiatives, language, and measures of success to promote a culture of collaboration for STEM programming in the Commonwealth.</p><p>2. Develop the infrastructure for creating STEM Regional Hubs and naming STEM Champions in communities across the Commonwealth to facilitate partnerships between organizations across regions and populations that will lead to increased cross-sector opportunities.</p><p>3. Advance and disseminate STEM curricular and professional development resources for formal and informal education.</p><p>4. Submit an annual report to the Governor and the General Assembly for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports. The chairman shall submit to the Governor and the General Assembly an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Board no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>B. The Board may apply for, accept, and expend gifts, grants, or donations from public or private sources to enable it to carry out its objectives.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0291'>291</a>.</p>