# § 54.1-3448 Schedule II.

<p>The controlled substances listed in this section are included in Schedule II:</p><p>1. Any of the following substances, except those narcotic drugs listed in other schedules, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:</p><p>Opium and opiate, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of opium or opiate, excluding apomorphine, thebaine-derived butorphanol, dextrorphan, nalbuphine, naldemedine, nalmefene, naloxone naltrexone and their respective salts, but including the following:</p><p>Raw opium;</p><p>Opium extracts;</p><p>Opium fluid extracts;</p><p>Powdered opium;</p><p>Granulated opium;</p><p>Tincture of opium;</p><p>Codeine;</p><p>Dihydroetorphine;</p><p>Ethylmorphine;</p><p>Etorphine hydrochloride;</p><p>Hydrocodone;</p><p>Hydromorphone;</p><p>Metopon;</p><p>Oripavine (3-O-demethylthebaine or 6,7,8,14-tetradehydro-4, 5-alpha-epoxy-6-methoxy-17-methylmorphinan-3-ol);</p><p>Morphine;</p><p>Noroxymorphone;</p><p>Oxycodone;</p><p>Oxymorphone;</p><p>Thebaine.</p><p>Any salt, compound, isomer, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of the substances referred to in this subdivision, but not including the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium.</p><p>Opium poppy and poppy straw.</p><p>Coca leaves and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca leaves, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of these substances, but not including decocainized coca leaves or extractions which do not contain cocaine or ecgonine; cocaine or any salt or isomer thereof.</p><p>Concentrate of poppy straw, the crude extract of poppy straw in either liquid, solid or powder form, which contains the phenanthrene alkaloids of the opium poppy.</p><p>2. Any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, whenever the existence of these isomers, esters, ethers and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation:</p><p>Alfentanil;</p><p>Alphaprodine;</p><p>Anileridine;</p><p>Bezitramide;</p><p>Bulk dextropropoxyphene (nondosage forms);</p><p>Carfentanil;</p><p>Dihydrocodeine;</p><p>Diphenoxylate;</p><p>Fentanyl;</p><p>Isomethadone;</p><p>Levo-alphacetylmethadol (levo-alpha-acetylmethadol)(levomethadyl acetate)(LAAM);</p><p>Levomethorphan;</p><p>Levorphanol;</p><p>Metazocine;</p><p>Methadone;</p><p>Methadone — Intermediate, 4-cyano-2-dimethylamino-4, 4-diphenyl butane;</p><p>Moramide — Intermediate, 2-methyl-3-morpholino-1, 1-diphenyl-propane-carboxylicacid;</p><p>Pethidine (other name: meperidine);</p><p>Pethidine — Intermediate — A, 4-cyano-1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine;</p><p>Pethidine — Intermediate — B, ethyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylate;</p><p>Pethidine — Intermediate — C, 1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid;</p><p>Phenazocine;</p><p>Piminodine;</p><p>Racemethorphan;</p><p>Racemorphan;</p><p>Remifentanil;</p><p>Sufentanil;</p><p>Tapentadol;</p><p>Thiafentanil.</p><p>3. Any material, compound, mixture or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a potential for abuse associated with a stimulant effect on the central nervous system:</p><p>Amphetamine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of its optical isomers;</p><p>Phenmetrazine and its salts;</p><p>Any substance which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers;</p><p>Methylphenidate;</p><p>Lisdexamfetamine, its salts, isomers, and salts of its isomers.</p><p>4. Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances having a depressant effect on the central nervous system, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation:</p><p>Amobarbital;</p><p>Glutethimide;</p><p>Secobarbital;</p><p>Pentobarbital;</p><p>Phencyclidine.</p><p>5. The following hallucinogenic substances:</p><p>Nabilone;</p><p>Dronabinol ((-)-delta-9-trans tetrahydrocannabinol) in an oral solution in a drug product approved for marketing by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.</p><p>6. Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances which are:</p><p>a. Immediate precursors to amphetamine and methamphetamine:</p><p>Phenylacetone.</p><p>b. Immediate precursor to phencyclidine:</p><p>1-phenylcyclohexylamine;</p><p>1-piperidinocyclohexanecarbonitrile (other name: PCC).</p><p>c. Immediate precursor to fentanyl:</p><p>4-anilino-N-phenethyl-4-piperidine (ANPP).</p><p>1972, c. 798, § 54-524.84:6; 1976, c. 614; 1977, c. 302; 1978, c. 833; 1979, c. 387; 1981, c. 30; 1984, c. 192; 1986, c. 463; 1988, cc. 283, 765; 1992, c. 737; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0763'>763</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0105'>105</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0135'>135</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0119'>119</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0074'>74</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0423'>423</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0700'>700</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0612'>612</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0085'>85</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0114'>114</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0115'>115</a>.</p>