# § 54.1-2408.1 Summary action against licenses, certificates, registrations, or multistate licensure privilege; allegations to be in writing.

<p>A. Any health regulatory board may suspend the license, certificate, registration, permit, or multistate licensure privilege of any person holding a license, certificate, registration, permit, or licensure privilege issued by it without a hearing simultaneously with the institution of proceedings for a hearing, if the relevant board finds that there is a substantial danger to the public health or safety which warrants this action. A board may meet by telephone conference call when summarily suspending a license, certificate, registration, permit, or licensure privilege if a good faith effort to assemble a quorum of the board has failed and, in the judgment of a majority of the members of the board, the continued practice by the individual constitutes a substantial danger to the public health or safety. Institution of proceedings for a hearing shall be provided simultaneously with the summary suspension. The hearing shall be scheduled within a reasonable time of the date of the summary suspension.</p><p>B. Any health regulatory board may restrict the license, certificate, registration, permit, or multistate licensure privilege of any person holding a license, certificate, registration, permit, or licensure privilege issued by it without proceeding simultaneously with notification of an informal conference pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4019/'>2.2-4019</a> and <a href='/vacode/54.1-2400/'>54.1-2400</a>, if the relevant board finds that there is a substantial danger to the public health or safety that warrants this action. A board may meet by telephone conference call when summarily restricting a license, certificate, registration, permit, or licensure privilege if a good faith effort to assemble a quorum of the board has failed and, in the judgment of a majority of the members of the board, the continued practice by the individual constitutes a substantial danger to the public health or safety. The informal conference shall be scheduled within a reasonable time of the date of the summary restriction. Evidence establishing that the registration issued by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration to a person holding a license, certificate, registration, permit, or multistate licensure privilege has been suspended or voluntarily surrendered in lieu of disciplinary action is sufficient for a finding that there is a substantial danger to the public health or safety.</p><p>C. Allegations of violations of this title shall be made in writing to the relevant health regulatory board.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0556'>556</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0049'>49</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0022'>22</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0094'>94</a>.</p>