# ยง 62.1-224 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:</p><p>"Authority" means the Virginia Resources Authority created in Chapter 21 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-197/'>62.1-197</a> et seq.) of Title 62.1.</p><p>"Board" means the State Water Control Board.</p><p>"Cost," as applied to any project financed under the provisions of this chapter, means the total of all costs incurred as reasonable and necessary for carrying out all works and undertakings necessary or incident to the accomplishment of any project. It includes, without limitation, all necessary developmental, planning and feasibility studies, surveys, plans and specifications, architectural, engineering, financial, legal or other special services, the cost of acquisition of land and any buildings and improvements thereon, including the discharge of any obligations of the sellers of such land, buildings or improvements, site preparation and development, including demolition or removal of existing structures, construction and reconstruction, labor, materials, machinery and equipment, the reasonable costs of financing incurred in the course of the development of the project, carrying charges incurred before placing the project in service, interest on funds borrowed to finance the project to a date subsequent to the estimated date the project is to be placed in service, necessary expenses incurred in connection with placing the project in service, the funding of accounts and reserves which the Authority may require and the cost of other items which the Authority determines to be reasonable and necessary.</p><p>"Fund" means the Virginia Water Facilities Revolving Fund created by this chapter.</p><p>"Local government" means any county, city, town, municipal corporation, authority, district, commission or political subdivision created by the General Assembly or pursuant to the Constitution or laws of the Commonwealth or any combination of any two or more of the foregoing. The term "local government" includes any authority, commission, district, sanitary board or governmental entity issuing bonds on behalf of an authority, commission, district or sanitary board of an adjoining state that operates a wastewater treatment facility located in Virginia.</p><p>"Other entities" means owners of private wastewater treatment facilities.</p><p>"Project" means any small water facility project as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-229/'>62.1-229</a> and any wastewater treatment facility located or to be located in the Commonwealth, all or part of which facility serves the citizens of the Commonwealth. The term includes, without limitation, sewage and wastewater (including surface and ground water) collection, treatment and disposal facilities; drainage facilities and projects; related office, administrative, storage, maintenance and laboratory facilities; and interests in land related thereto.</p><p>1986, c. 415; 1992, c. 28; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0020'>20</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP1012'>1012</a>.</p>