# ยง 28.2-643 Declaring certain areas in Chesapeake Bay, Mathews County, public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals.

<p>The following ground in Chesapeake Bay, Mathews County, contained within the following boundaries is declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use:</p><p>Beginning, as a point of reference, at survey station "Sand," located near the south end of Gwynn's Island; thence due east to the low-water mark on the east side of Gwynn's Island to the true point of beginning; thence due east along the south end of Gwynn's Island; thence due east to the low-water mark on the east Public Ground No. 6, Mathews County; thence following the west side of Public Ground No. 6, Mathews County, in a northerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 8; thence following said Public Ground in a northerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 7; thence following said Public Ground in a northerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 6; thence in a northerly direction, following said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 5; thence in a northerly direction following said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a northerly direction following said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 3; thence in a generally west direction following the south side of Public Ground No. 6 to Public Ground corner No. 2; thence in a generally westerly direction following said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 1; thence in a southwesterly direction to the intersection of Public Ground No. 5, Mathews County; thence following the northeast side of Public Ground No. 5 in a southeasterly direction to the low-tide line at Cherry Point on the north side of Gwynn's Island; thence following the low tide on the north side of Gwynn's Island to a point; thence following the low-tide line on the east side of Gwynn's Island in a southerly direction to the true point of beginning.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-204.1:2; 1958, c. 204; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-153; 1992, c. 836.</p>