# ยง 3.2-106 Horse breeder incentive program.

<p>A. It is the policy of the Commonwealth to encourage the growth of all segments of its agricultural industry. The General Assembly finds that the horse breeding industry has a significant impact on the Commonwealth's economy and that it is to the Commonwealth's benefit to encourage, expand, and develop horse breeding farms with programs providing financial incentives to breeders that will encourage and supplement private capital.</p><p>B. To the extent that public or private funds become available, the Department may establish a program of financial incentives designed to encourage, expand, and develop the breeding of horses in the Commonwealth. The Department shall adopt appropriate regulations for the administration of the program. Such regulations shall provide for the distribution of financial awards to breeders only to the extent that public funds made available to the Department for the program are matched dollar for dollar by private funds. The regulations shall also provide that no single breeder shall receive, in any one calendar year, more than 10 percent of the public funds made available to the Department for the program during that year. Awards made under any such incentive program shall be limited to horses foaled in the Commonwealth that are owned by breeders who are actively engaged in the breeding of horses in the Commonwealth.</p><p>1981, c. 140, ยง 3.1-741.2; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>