# ยง 6.2-1709 Testing of mortgage loan originator applicants.

<p>A. In order to meet the written test requirement referred to in subdivision 4 of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1707/'>6.2-1707</a>, an individual shall pass, in accordance with reasonable standards established under this section, a qualified written test that has been developed by the Registry and administered by a test provider approved by the Registry.</p><p>B. A written test shall not be a qualified written test for purposes of subsection A unless the test adequately measures the applicant's knowledge and comprehension in appropriate subject areas, including: (i) ethics; (ii) federal law and regulation pertaining to mortgage loan origination; (iii) state law pertaining to mortgage loan origination; and (iv) federal and state law and regulation pertaining to fraud, consumer protection, the nontraditional mortgage product marketplace, and fair lending issues.</p><p>C. Nothing in this section shall prohibit a test provider approved by the Registry from providing a test at a location of: (i) the employer of the applicant; (ii) any subsidiary or affiliate of the employer; or (iii) any entity with which the applicant maintains an exclusive arrangement to act as a mortgage loan originator.</p><p>D. An individual shall not be considered to have passed a qualified written test unless he has correctly answered at least 75 percent of the test questions. An individual may take a test three consecutive times with each consecutive taking occurring at least 30 days after the preceding test. After failing three consecutive tests, an individual shall wait at least six months before retaking the test. A licensed mortgage loan originator who fails to maintain a valid license for a period of five years or longer, exclusive of any period during which such individual is a registered mortgage loan originator, shall retake the test and correctly answer at least 75 percent of the test questions.</p><p>E. An applicant who has successfully completed pre-licensing education and testing that is mandated by the Act and approved by the Registry for any state shall be deemed to have completed Virginia's pre-licensing education and testing requirements, other than any limited or separate state testing requirements relating to Virginia law and regulation as described in subsection B.</p><p>2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0273'>273</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0453'>453</a>, ยง 6.1-431.10; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0052'>52</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0187'>187</a>.</p>