# § 3.2-3803 Licenses required of nurserymen or dealers; inspection fees.

<p>A. It is unlawful for any nurseryman or dealer to offer for sale, sell, deliver, or give away nursery stock unless such person shall have first procured a license from the Commissioner.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall not issue any license to a dealer except upon the payment of $25 for each separate sales location. Any dealer who fails to renew his license within the 30 days following the December 31 expiration date shall pay to the Commissioner a $15 late fee in addition to the license fee.</p><p>C. The Commissioner shall not issue any license to a nurseryman except upon the payment of $75 and receipt of an inspection certificate. At the issuance of the license, each nursery shall also pay an inspection fee of $1.50 for each acre above 50 acres of nursery stock inspected by the Commissioner. Any nurseryman who fails to renew his license within the 30 days following the December 31 expiration date shall pay to the Commissioner a $50 late fee in addition to the license fee.</p><p>D. All licenses shall expire on December 31. Any nurseryman or dealer who fails to renew his license within the 30 days following the December 31 expiration date shall be considered unlicensed for the purposes of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-3808/'>3.2-3808</a>.</p><p>E. Any nurseryman or dealer who pays to the Commissioner a late fee in accordance with the provisions of subsection B or C is not guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor for failure to renew his license under subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-3810/'>3.2-3810</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 3-178.9; 1964, c. 476; 1966, c. 702, § 3.1-143; 1980, c. 291, §§ 3.1-188.36, 3.1-188.37; 1988, c. 552; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0685'>685</a>.</p>