# ยง 46.2-370 Revoked driver's licenses, special identification cards, certificates of title, license plates, registration cards to be returned; Commissioner may take possession of them.

<p>A. Any person whose driver's license, special identification card, certificate of title, registration card, or license plates have been suspended, cancelled, or revoked as provided in this title or in Title 18.2 and have not been reinstated, shall immediately return every such license, unless it has been surrendered to the court as required by law, special identification card, certificate of title, registration card, and set of license plates or decals held by him to the Commissioner.</p><p>B. The Commissioner may take possession of any driver's license, special identification card, certificate of title, registration card, or set of license plates or decals on their suspension, cancellation, or revocation under the provisions of this title or in Title 18.2 or may direct any law-enforcement officer to take possession of and return them to the office of the Commissioner. Whenever any person fails or refuses to surrender a driver's license, special identification card, certificate of title, registration card, license plates, or decals requiring a representative of the Department designated by the Commissioner to serve the order of suspension, cancellation, or revocation, or whenever the Department directs a sheriff to effect service of a decision, order, or notice pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-416/'>46.2-416</a>, the person sought to be served shall, in addition to any other required statutory fees, pay a fee of ten dollars to partially defray the cost of administration incurred by the Department and the Commissioner. No such revoked, cancelled, or suspended license, special identification card, certificate of title, or registration items shall be reinstated before the ten-dollar fee is paid. All fees collected under the provisions of this section shall be paid by the Commissioner into the state treasury and shall be set aside as a special fund to be used to meet the expenses of the Department.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 46-395; 1958, cc. 322, 541, ยง 46.1-397; 1976, c. 156; 1981, c. 619; 1984, c. 780; 1987, c. 696; 1989, c. 727; 1992, c. 99.</p>