# ยง 46.2-1527.10 Recovery on bond.

<p>With respect to a motor vehicle dealer electing continuous bonding under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1527.9/'>46.2-1527.9</a>, whenever any person is awarded a final judgment in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Commonwealth against the dealer for (i) any loss or damage in connection with the purchase or lease of a motor vehicle by reason of fraud practiced on him or fraudulent representation made to him by the dealer or one of the dealer's salespersons acting within the scope of his employment, (ii) any loss or damage by reason of the violation by the dealer or salesperson of any provision of this chapter in connection with the purchase or lease of a motor vehicle, or (iii) any loss or damage resulting from a breach of an extended service contract, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-435/'>59.1-435</a>, entered into on or after July 1, 2003, the judgment creditor shall have a claim against the dealer bond for such damages as may be awarded such person in final judgment and unpaid by the dealer, and may recover such unpaid damages up to but not exceeding the maximum liability of the surety as set forth in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1527.9/'>46.2-1527.9</a> from the surety who shall be subrogated to the rights of such person against the dealer or salesperson. The liability of such surety shall be limited to actual damages and attorney fees assessed against the dealer or salesperson as part of the underlying judgment but this section does not authorize the award of attorney fees in the underlying judgment. The liability of such surety shall not include any sums representing interest or punitive damages assessed against the dealer or salesperson.</p><p>The dealer's surety shall notify the Board when a claim is made against a dealer's bond, when a claim is paid, and when the bond is cancelled. Such notification shall include the amount of claim and the circumstances surrounding the claim. Notification of cancellation shall include the effective date and reason for cancellation. The bond may be cancelled as to future liability by the dealer's surety upon 30 days' notice to the Board.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0331'>331</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0615'>615</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0710'>710</a>.</p>