# ยง 2.2-5402 Powers and duties of designated agency.

<p>The designated agency shall have the following powers and duties to:</p><p>1. Coordinate state activities designed to reduce poverty.</p><p>2. Cooperate with agencies of the Commonwealth and the federal government in reducing poverty and implementing community, social and economic programs.</p><p>3. Receive and expend funds for any purpose authorized by this chapter.</p><p>4. Enter into contracts with and to award grants to public and private nonprofit agencies and organizations.</p><p>5. Develop a state plan based on needs identified by community action agencies and community action statewide organizations.</p><p>6. Fund community action agencies and community action statewide organizations and to adopt regulations.</p><p>7. Provide assistance to local governments or private organizations for the purpose of establishing and operating a community action agency.</p><p>8. Provide technical assistance to community action agencies to improve program planning, program development, administration and the mobilization of public and private resources.</p><p>9. Require community action agencies and community action statewide organizations to generate local contributions of cash or in-kind services as the agency may establish by regulation.</p><p>10. Convene public meetings that provide citizens the opportunity to comment on public policies and programs to reduce poverty.</p><p>11. Advise the Governor and the General Assembly of the nature and extent of poverty in the Commonwealth and to make recommendations concerning changes in state and federal policies and programs.</p><p>1982, c. 667, ยง 2.1-590; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>