# ยง 46.2-341.14:6 Onsite inspections and audits.

<p>A. Each applicant for certification as a third party tester shall permit the Department or FMCSA to conduct random examinations, inspections, and audits of its operations, facilities, and records as they relate to its third party testing program, for the purpose of determining whether the applicant is qualified for certification. Each person who has been certified as a third party tester shall permit the Department to periodically inspect and audit his third party testing program to determine whether it remains in compliance with certification requirements.</p><p>B. The Department or FMCSA will perform its random examinations, inspections, and audits of third party testers during regular business hours with or without prior notice to the third party tester.</p><p>C. Inspections and audits of third party testers will occur at a minimum once every two years and include, at a minimum, an examination of:</p><p>1. Records relating to the third party testing program;</p><p>2. Evidence of compliance with the FMCSA regulations and Virginia Motor Carrier Safety Regulations;</p><p>3. Skills testing procedures, practices, and operations;</p><p>4. Vehicles used for testing;</p><p>5. Qualifications of third party examiners;</p><p>6. Effectiveness of the skills test program by either (i) testing a sample of drivers who have been issued skills test certificates by the third party tester to compare pass/fail results, (ii) having Department employees covertly take the skills tests from a third party examiner, or (iii) having Department employees co-score along with the third party examiner during commercial driver's license applicant's skills tests to compare pass/fail results;</p><p>7. A comparison of the commercial driver's license skills test results of applicants who are issued commercial driver's licenses with the commercial driver's license scoring sheets that are maintained in the third party testers' files; and</p><p>8. Any other aspect of the third party tester's operation that the Department determines is necessary to verify that the third party tester meets or continues to meet the requirements for certification.</p><p>D. The Department will prepare a written report of the results of each inspection and audit of third party testers. A copy of the report will be provided to the third party tester.</p><p>2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582'>582</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0077'>77</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>.</p>