# § 15.2-2269 Plans and specifications for utility fixtures and systems to be submitted for approval.

<p>A. If the owners of any such subdivision desire to construct in, on, under, or adjacent to any streets or alleys located in such subdivision any gas, water, sewer or electric light or power works, pipes, wires, fixtures or systems, they shall present plans or specifications therefor to the governing body of the locality in which the subdivision is located or its authorized agent, for approval. If the subdivision is located beyond the corporate limits of a municipality but within the limits set forth in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2248/'>15.2-2248</a>, such plans and specifications shall be presented for approval to the governing body of such municipality, or its authorized agent, if the county has not adopted a subdivision ordinance. The governing body, or agent, shall have 45 days in which to approve or disapprove the same. In event of the failure of any governing body, or its agent, to act within such period, such plans and specifications may be submitted, after ten days' notice to the locality, to the circuit court for such locality for its approval or disapproval, and its approval thereof shall, for all purposes of this article be treated and considered as approval by the locality or its authorized agent.</p><p>B. Any state agency or public authority authorized by state law making a review of any plat forwarded to it under this article, including, without limitation, the Virginia Department of Transportation and authorities authorized by Chapter 51 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5100/'>15.2-5100</a> et seq.), shall complete its review within 45 days of receipt of the plans, provided, however, that the time periods set forth in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2222.1/'>15.2-2222.1</a> shall apply to plats triggering the applicability of said section. The Virginia Department of Transportation and authorities authorized by Chapter 51 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5100/'>15.2-5100</a> et seq.) shall allow use of public rights-of-way dedicated for public street purposes for placement of utilities by permit when practical and shall not unreasonably deny plan approval. If a state agency or public authority by state law does not approve the plan, it shall comply with the requirements, and be subject to the restrictions, set forth in subsection A of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2259/'>15.2-2259</a>, with respect to the exception of the time period therein specified. Upon receipt of the approvals from all state agencies, the local agent shall act upon a preliminary subdivision plat within 35 days.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-967.15; 1962, c. 407, § 15.1-480; 1997, c. 587; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0202'>202</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0718'>718</a>.</p>