# ยง 38.2-1845.11 Termination, suspension, or revocation of license.

<p>A. A license issued to an individual public adjuster shall authorize him to act as a public adjuster until his license is otherwise terminated, suspended, or revoked.</p><p>B. A license issued to a business entity shall authorize such business entity to act as a public adjuster until such license is otherwise terminated, suspended, or revoked. The dissolution or discontinuance of a partnership, whether by intent or by operation of law, shall automatically terminate the public adjuster license issued to such partnership. The Bureau shall automatically terminate all public adjuster licenses within 90 calendar days of receiving notification from the Clerk of the Commission that the certificate of organization or charter of a domestic limited liability company or corporation respectively, whether by intent or by operation of law, has been terminated or that the certificate of registration or certificate of authority of a foreign limited liability company or corporation, respectively, has been revoked.</p><p>C. Except as provided in subsection B of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1845.5/'>38.2-1845.5</a>, the license authority of any licensed resident public adjuster shall terminate immediately when such public adjuster has moved his residence from the Commonwealth, whether or not the Commission has been notified of such move.</p><p>D. The license authority of any business entity licensed as a public adjuster shall terminate immediately if the sole licensed responsible public adjuster designated pursuant to subdivision F 3 of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1845.2/'>38.2-1845.2</a> for the business entity's compliance with the insurance laws, rules, and regulations of the Commonwealth is removed for any reason and a new responsible public adjuster has not been designated and the Commission notified within 30 calendar days of such removal and of the newly designated responsible public adjuster.</p><p>E. The Commission shall not revoke or suspend an existing license until the licensee is given an opportunity to be heard before the Commission. If the Commission proposes to revoke or suspend an existing license, it shall give the licensee at least 10 calendar days' notice in writing of the time and place of the hearing, if a hearing is requested. The notice shall contain a statement of the objections to the issuance of the license or the reason for its proposed revocation or suspension, as the case may be. The notice may be given to the licensee by registered or certified mail, sent to the last known address of record or the last known business address if the address of record is incorrect, or in any other lawful manner, the Commission prescribes. The Commission may summon witnesses to testify with respect to the licensee, and the licensee may introduce evidence in the licensee's behalf. No licensee whose license is revoked shall again apply for a license until after the expiration of a period of five years from the date of the Commission's order or such other period as the Commission prescribes in its order.</p><p>F. The license of a business entity may be suspended or revoked if the Commission finds, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, that a violation by an individual licensee acting at the direction of, on behalf of, or with the permission of the business entity was known to be a violation by one or more of the partners, officers, or managers acting on behalf of the business entity or if it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that responsibility for such violation by the individual can reasonably be imputed to one or more of the partners, officers, or managers acting on behalf of the business entity, and neither was the violation reported to the Commission nor corrective action taken.</p><p>G. In addition to or in lieu of any applicable denial, suspension, or revocation of a license, a person may, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, be subject to a penalty pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-218/'>38.2-218</a>.</p><p>H. The Commission shall retain the authority to enforce the provisions of and impose any penalty or remedy authorized by this title against any person who is under investigation for or charged with a violation of this title, even if the person's license or registration has been surrendered, terminated, suspended, revoked, or has lapsed by operation of law.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0735'>735</a>.</p>