# ยง 56-550 Police powers; violations of law.

<p>A. The roadways and highways constructed or operated under this chapter may be policed in whole or in part by officers of the Department of State Police, even though all or some portion of any such projects lie within the corporate limits of a municipality or other political subdivision, and just as if the roadway and highway were a part of the state highway system. The operator and the Department of State Police shall agree upon reasonable terms and conditions pursuant to which the activities contemplated in this section may take place. Such officers shall be under the exclusive control and direction of the Superintendent of State Police and shall be responsible for the preservation of public peace, prevention of crime, apprehension of criminals, protection of the rights of persons and property, and enforcement of the laws of the Commonwealth, within the limits of any highway and roadway. All other police officers of the Commonwealth and of each county, city, town or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth through which any roadway, or portion thereof, extends shall have the same powers and jurisdiction within the limits of such roadways and highways as they have beyond such limits and shall have access to the highway and roadway at any time for the purpose of exercising such powers and jurisdiction. This authority does not extend to the private offices, buildings, garages and other improvements of the operator to any greater degree than the police power extends to any other private buildings and improvements.</p><p>B. The traffic and motor vehicle laws of the Commonwealth shall apply to persons and motor vehicles on the roadway or highway, as shall Chapter 8 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-800/'>33.2-800</a> et seq.) of Title 33.2, and the powers of arrest of police officers shall be the same as those applying to conduct on the state highway system. Punishment for offenses shall be as prescribed by law for conduct occurring on the state highway system.</p><p>1988, c. 649.</p>