# ยง 33.2-2602 Composition of Commission.

<p>The Commission shall consist of 23 members as follows:</p><p>1. The chief elected officer of the governing body of each of the 10 cities embraced by the Commission;</p><p>2. A current elected official of each of the four counties embraced by the Commission, provided that such official (i) serves on the governing body of the county and (ii) has been appointed by resolution of such governing body to serve as the county's member on the Commission;</p><p>3. Three members of the House of Delegates who reside in different counties or cities embraced by the Commission, appointed by the Speaker of the House, and two members of the Senate who reside in different counties or cities embraced by the Commission, appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and</p><p>4. The following four persons serving as nonvoting ex officio members of the Commission: a member of the Commonwealth Transportation Board who resides in a locality embraced by the Commission and is appointed by the Governor; the Director of the Department of Rail and Public Transportation, or his designee; the Commissioner of Highways, or his designee; and the Executive Director of the Virginia Port Authority, or his designee.</p><p>All members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. If a member of the Commission who represents a locality as provided in subdivision 1 or 2 is unable to attend a meeting of the Commission, he may designate another current elected official of such governing body to attend a meeting of the Commission. Such designation shall be for the purposes of one meeting and shall be submitted in writing or electronically to the Chairman of the Commission at least 48 hours prior to the affected meeting.</p><p>The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its voting membership.</p><p>The Auditor of Public Accounts, or his legally authorized representatives, shall annually audit the financial accounts of the Commission, and the cost of such audit shall be borne by the Commission.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0545'>545</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0678'>678</a>; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0603'>603</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0608'>608</a>.</p>