# ยง 3.2-4813 Detained commercial feeds.

<p>A. The Commissioner may issue and enforce a written or printed stop sale, use, removal, or seizure order to the owner or custodian of any lot of commercial feed distributed in violation of this chapter. The Commissioner shall release for distribution the commercial feed held under a stop sale, use, removal, or seizure order when the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied. If the Commissioner determines that the commercial feed cannot be brought into compliance with this chapter, the Commissioner shall release the commercial feed to be: (i) remanufactured, if possible; (ii) returned to the manufacturer; or (iii) destroyed.</p><p>B. The Commissioner may seize any lot of commercial feed not in compliance with this chapter. The Commissioner may make application for seizure to an appropriate court in the city or county where the commercial feed is located. In the event that the court finds the said commercial feed to be in violation of this chapter, and orders the condemnation of said commercial feed, the owner of the commercial feed shall dispose of the seized commercial feed in any manner that, in the opinion of the Commissioner, is consistent with the quality of the commercial feed, and that complies with the laws of the Commonwealth. In no instance shall the court order the disposition of said commercial feed without first giving the claimant an opportunity to apply to the court for release of said commercial feed, or for permission to process or relabel said commercial feed, to bring it into compliance with this chapter.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0743'>743</a>, ยง 3.1-828.14; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>