# § 6.2-328 Charges allowed on loan secured by subordinate mortgage.

<p>A. Any lender making a loan secured by a subordinate mortgage or deed of trust may require the borrower to pay, in addition to the loan fee and interest permitted by § <a href='/vacode/6.2-327/'>6.2-327</a>, the actual cost of a credit report, title examination, title insurance, mortgage guaranty insurance, recording fees, surveys, attorney fees, appraisal fees, and a fee to determine if the property securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area. No other charges of any kind shall be imposed on or be payable by the borrower either to the lender or any other party in connection with such loan other than:</p><p>1. A fee charged by the settlement agent as defined in § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1000/'>55.1-1000</a>;</p><p>2. Late charges in the amount specified in § <a href='/vacode/6.2-400/'>6.2-400</a> and a prepayment penalty permitted under § <a href='/vacode/6.2-423/'>6.2-423</a> that are contracted for; and</p><p>3. Upon default, court costs, attorney fees, trustee's commission, and other expenses of collection to which the borrower may be subject as otherwise permitted by law.</p><p>B. Broker's or finder's fees may be paid by the lender from the loan fee or interest permitted under § <a href='/vacode/6.2-327/'>6.2-327</a>. A broker's fee, finder's fee, or commission not to exceed five percent of the principal amount of the loan may be paid by the borrower if the total of the loan fee permitted under § <a href='/vacode/6.2-327/'>6.2-327</a> and the broker's fee, finder's fee, or commission does not exceed five percent of the principal amount of the loan.</p><p>C. The premium for any insurance required or provided pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/6.2-411/'>6.2-411</a> shall not be considered a charge imposed on or payable by the borrower in connection with the loan.</p><p>D. No charge may be imposed or collected, except as permitted by § <a href='/vacode/6.2-327/'>6.2-327</a>, if the loan is not made.</p><p>E. This section shall not apply to any loan made by (i) a bank, savings institution, industrial loan association, or credit union or (ii) a seller in a real estate sales transaction who takes a subordinate mortgage or deed of trust on such real estate.</p><p>F. The borrower under any loan to which the provisions of this section apply may assert any defense or claim he may have under §§ <a href='/vacode/6.2-304/'>6.2-304</a> and <a href='/vacode/6.2-305/'>6.2-305</a> against any assignee or transferee of the contract of indebtedness.</p><p>1987, c. 622, § 6.1-330.72; 1993, c. 774; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0075'>75</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0243'>243</a>; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0069'>69</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0089'>89</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>