# § 30-347 Medicaid Innovation and Reform Commission; membership; terms; compensation and expenses; definition.

<p>A. The Medicaid Innovation and Reform Commission (the Commission) is established as a commission in the legislative branch of state government. The purpose of the Commission shall be to review, recommend and approve innovation and reform proposals affecting the implementation of Title XIX and Title XXI of the Social Security Act, including eligibility and financing for proposals set out in Item 307 of Chapter 806 of the 2013 Acts of Assembly. Specifically, the Commission shall review (i) the development of reform proposals; (ii) progress in obtaining federal approval for reforms such as benefit design, service delivery, payment reform, and quality and cost containment outcomes; and (iii) implementation of reform measures.</p><p>B. The Commission shall consist of 12 members as follows: the chair of the House Committee on Appropriations, or his designee, and four members of the House Committee on Appropriations appointed by the chair and the chair of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, or his designee, and four members of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations appointed by the chair. In addition, the Secretaries of Finance and Health and Human Resources shall serve as ex officio, nonvoting members of the Commission.</p><p>C. Members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. Members may be reappointed for successive terms.</p><p>D. 1. The members of the Commission shall elect a chairman and vice chairman annually. A majority of the voting members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.  The meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request. The Commission shall meet bimonthly beginning in June 2013, or as soon as possible thereafter.</p><p>2. An affirmative vote by three of the five members of the Commission from the House of Delegates and three of the five members of the Commission from the Senate shall be required to endorse any reform proposal to amend the State Plan for Medical Assistance under Title XIX of the Social Security Act, and any waivers thereof, to implement coverage for newly eligible individuals pursuant to 42 U.S.C. § 1396d(y)(1)[2010] of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.</p><p>E. Legislative members of the Commission shall receive such compensation as provided in§ <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>, and nonlegislative members shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a>.</p><p>2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0806'>806</a>.</p>