# § 32.1-122.6:01 Board of Health to award certain scholarships and loan repayment funds.

<p>A. The Board of Health shall award to eligible part-time and full-time students the nursing scholarships available from the Nursing Scholarship and Loan Repayment Fund established in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3011.2/'>54.1-3011.2</a> pursuant to the procedures for the administration of the scholarships awarded through § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-614/'>23.1-614</a>.</p><p>Eligible part-time and full-time students shall be bona fide residents of Virginia as determined by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-502/'>23.1-502</a>, shall be enrolled in or accepted for enrollment in nursing education programs preparing them for examination for licensure as practical nurses or registered nurses, and shall also meet such other criteria as may be established by the Board of Health. Prior to awarding any scholarship, the Board of Health shall require the recipient to agree to perform a period of nursing service in this Commonwealth for each scholarship. The Board may establish variable periods of service as conditions for receipt of scholarships according to the amounts of the awards. In the event that fees are collected pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3011.1/'>54.1-3011.1</a>, the Board shall award the scholarships funded through such fees to practical nurses and registered nurses in proportion to the funds generated by the fees for licensure from such nurses.</p><p>Eligibility for these scholarships shall be limited to a total of four academic years. The scholarships shall be awarded on a competitive basis, considering the financial needs of the applicant, and all such funds shall be used only for payment of charges for tuition, fees, room, board, or other educational expenses as prescribed by the Board of Health.</p><p>The Board of Health shall submit the names of the scholarship recipients to the Board of Nursing, which shall be responsible for transmission of the funds to the appropriate institution to be credited to the account of the recipient.</p><p>B. The Board shall establish a nursing scholarship and loan repayment program for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, and certified nurse aides who agree to perform a period of service in a Commonwealth long-term care facility pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Board in cooperation with the Board of Nursing. The Board shall submit the names of the scholarship and loan repayment recipients to the Board of Nursing, which shall be responsible for transmission of the funds to the appropriate educational or financial institution to be credited to the account of the recipient.</p><p>1. The nursing scholarships authorized by this subsection shall be awarded to eligible part-time and full-time students who are bona fide residents of Virginia as determined by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-502/'>23.1-502</a> and who are (a) accepted for enrollment or are enrolled in approved nursing education programs preparing them for examination for licensure as practical nurses or registered nurses or (b) accepted for enrollment or enrolled in approved nurse aide education programs preparing them for certification as authorized in Chapter 30 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3000/'>54.1-3000</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1. Prior to awarding any scholarship, the Board shall require the recipient to agree to perform a period of nursing service in a long-term care facility in the Commonwealth for each scholarship. The Board may establish variable periods of service according to the amount of the award in a long-term care facility as a condition for receipt of a scholarship.</p><p>Eligibility for these scholarships shall be limited to a total of four academic years. The scholarships shall be awarded on a competitive basis, considering the financial needs of the applicant, and all such funds shall be used only for payment of charges for tuition, fees, room, board, or other educational expenses as prescribed by the Board.</p><p>2. The nursing loan repayment program authorized by this subsection shall be established for registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, and certified nurse aides who: (a) are bona fide residents of Virginia as determined by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-502/'>23.1-502</a>, (b) have graduated from an approved educational program pursuant to Chapter 30 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3000/'>54.1-3000</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1, and (c) meet such other criteria as determined by the Board. Prior to awarding any funds, the Board shall require the recipient to agree to perform a period of nursing service in a long-term care facility in the Commonwealth as a condition for loan repayment according to the amount of the award.</p><p>1991, c. 669; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0240'>240</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0254'>254</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0290'>290</a>.</p>