# ยง 6.2-2603 Application for license; form; content; fee.

<p>A. An application for a license under this chapter shall be made in writing and on a form provided by the Commission.</p><p>B. The application shall set forth:</p><p>1. The name and address of the applicant, the name and address of each senior officer, and (i) if the applicant is a partnership, firm, or association, the name and address of each partner or member; (ii) if the applicant is a corporation or limited liability company, the name and address of each director, member, registered agent, and principal; or (iii) if the applicant is a business trust, the name and address of each trustee;</p><p>2. The address of the principal place of business to be licensed;</p><p>3. Such other information concerning the financial responsibility, background, experience, and general fitness of the applicant and its members, senior officers, directors, trustees, and principals as the Commissioner may require; and</p><p>4. Any other pertinent information that the Commissioner may require.</p><p>C. The application shall be accompanied by payment of a nonrefundable application fee as prescribed by the Commission. The fee shall not be abated by surrender, suspension, or revocation of the license.</p><p>D. If the Commissioner requests information to complete a deficient application and the information is not received within 60 days of the Commissioner's request, the application shall be deemed abandoned unless a request for an extension of time is received and approved by the Commissioner prior to the expiration of the 60-day period. However, this subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the Commission from denying a license application that does not meet the requirements of this chapter.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1198'>1198</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1250'>1250</a>.</p>