# § 10.1-1441 Application for certification of site approval.

<p>A. At any time within six months after submission of the final impact analysis, the applicant may submit to the Board an application for certification of site approval. The application shall contain:</p><p>1. Conceptual engineering designs for the proposed facility;</p><p>2. A detailed description of the facility's suitability to meet the criteria promulgated by the Board, including any design and operation measures that will be necessary or otherwise undertaken to meet the criteria; and</p><p>3. A siting agreement, if one has been executed pursuant to subsection C of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1442/'>10.1-1442</a>, or, if none has been executed, a statement to that effect.</p><p>B. The application shall be accompanied by whatever fee the Board, by regulation, prescribes pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1434/'>10.1-1434</a>.</p><p>C. The Board shall review the application for completeness and notify the applicant within fifteen days of receipt that the application is incomplete or complete.</p><p>If the application is incomplete, the Board shall advise the applicant of the information necessary to make the application complete. The Board shall take no further action until the application is complete.</p><p>If the application is complete, the Board shall direct the applicant to furnish copies of the application to the following: five to the host community, one to the Director, and one to each person owning property adjoining the proposed site. At least one copy of the application shall be made available by the applicant for inspection and copying at a convenient place in a host community during normal business hours.</p><p>D. The Board shall cause notice of the application to be made in the manner provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1447/'>10.1-1447</a> and shall notify each governing body that upon publication of the notice the governing body shall conclude all negotiations with the applicant within thirty days of publication of the notice. The applicant and the governing body may, by agreement, extend the time for negotiation to a fixed date and shall forthwith notify the Board of this date. The Board may also extend the time to a fixed date for good cause shown.</p><p>If the host community has waived participation under the provisions of subsection D of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1438/'>10.1-1438</a>, the Board shall, at the time that notice of the application is made, request that the governing body submit, within thirty days of receiving notice, a report meeting the requirements of subdivision 2 of subsection E of this section.</p><p>E. At the end of the period specified in subsection D of this section, a governing body shall submit to the Board and to the applicant a report containing:</p><p>1. A complete siting agreement, if any, or in case of failure to reach full agreement, a description of points of agreement and unresolved points; and</p><p>2. Any conditions or restrictions on the construction, operation or design of the facility that are required by local ordinance.</p><p>F. If the report is not submitted within the time required, the Board may proceed as specified in subsection A of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1443/'>10.1-1443</a>.</p><p>G. The applicant may submit comments on the report of the governing body at any time prior to the issuance of the draft certification of site approval.</p><p>H. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if the host community has notified the Board, pursuant to subsection D of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1438/'>10.1-1438</a>, that it has elected to waive further participation hereunder, the Board shall so notify the applicant within fifteen days of receipt of notice from the host community, and shall advise the applicant of the time for submitting its application for certification of site approval. The applicant shall submit its application within the time prescribed by the Board, which time shall not be less than ninety days unless the applicant agrees to a shorter time.</p><p>1986, c. 492, § 10-297; 1988, c. 891.</p>