# § 22.1-2.1 Provision of in-person instruction.

<p>A. As used in this section, "in-person instruction" means instructional interaction between teachers and students that occurs in person and in real time. "In-person instruction" does not include the act of proctoring remote online learning in a classroom.</p><p>B. Except as otherwise permitted in subdivision C 4 of § <a href='/vacode/22.1-98/'>22.1-98</a> or Article 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/22.1-276.01/'>22.1-276.01</a> et seq.) of Chapter 14, each school board shall offer in-person instruction to each student enrolled in the local school division in a public elementary and secondary school for at least the minimum number of required annual instructional hours and to each student enrolled in the local school division in a public school-based early childhood care and education program for the entirety of the instructional time provided pursuant to such program.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding any other provision of law or any regulation, rule, or policy implemented by a school board, school division, school official, or other state or local authority, the parent of any child enrolled in a public elementary or secondary school, or in any school-based early childhood care and education program, may elect for such child to not wear a mask while on school property. A parent making such an election shall not be required to provide a reason or any certification of the child's health or education status. No student shall suffer any adverse disciplinary or academic consequences as a result of this parental election. Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the Governor's authority under Chapter 3.2 (§ <a href='/vacode/44-146.13/'>44-146.13</a> et seq.) of Title 44 to accomplish the purposes of such chapter with regard to a communicable disease of public health threat as defined in § <a href='/vacode/44-146.16/'>44-146.16</a>.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>, <a href='https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0780'>780</a>.</p>