# § 16.1-323.1 State Council for Interstate Compact for Juveniles.

<p>A. The Virginia Council for the Interstate Compact for Juveniles (the Council) is created as a policy council, within the meaning of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2100/'>2.2-2100</a>, in the executive branch of state government. The Council shall consist of five members:</p><p>1. One representative of the legislative branch appointed by the Joint Rules Committee;</p><p>2. One representative of the judicial branch appointed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court;</p><p>3. One representative of the executive branch appointed by the Governor;</p><p>4. One nonlegislative citizen member, representing a victims' group appointed by the Governor; and</p><p>5. One nonlegislative citizen member who in addition to serving as a member of the Council shall serve as the compact administrator for Virginia, appointed by the Governor.</p><p>The appointments shall be subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The legislative members and other state officials appointed to the Council shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Members who are not state officials shall be appointed for four-year terms. All members may be reappointed. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be made for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>B. The Council shall appoint the compact administrator as the Virginia commissioner to the Interstate Commission. The Virginia commissioner shall serve on the Interstate Commission in such capacity under or pursuant to the applicable laws of this Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The Council shall exercise oversight and advocacy concerning its participation in interstate commission activities and other duties as may be determined by the Council, including development of policies concerning operations and procedures of the compact within Virginia.</p><p>D. The Council shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman annually. A majority of the members of the Council shall constitute a quorum. Meetings of the Council shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>E. Legislative members of the Council shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a> and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> for their services. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Department of Juvenile Justice.</p><p>F. The Department of Juvenile Justice shall provide staff support to the Council.</p><p>2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0277'>277</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>