# § 33.2-1527 Priority Transportation Fund.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Priority Transportation Fund (the Fund). The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. All funds as may be designated in the appropriation act for deposit to the Fund shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Such funds shall include:</p><p>1. Beginning with the fiscal year ending June 30, 2000, and for fiscal years thereafter, all revenues that exceed the official forecast, pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-1503/'>2.2-1503</a>, for (i) the allocation to the Highway Maintenance and Operating Fund established in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1530/'>33.2-1530</a> as set forth in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524/'>33.2-1524</a> and (ii) the allocation to highway and mass transit improvement projects as set forth in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524.1/'>33.2-1524.1</a>, but not including any amounts that are allocated to the Commonwealth Port Fund and the Commonwealth Aviation Fund under such section;</p><p>2. All revenues deposited into the Fund pursuant to subdivision 7 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524.1/'>33.2-1524.1</a>;</p><p>3. All revenues deposited into the Fund pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-226/'>33.2-226</a>; and</p><p>4. Any other such funds as may be transferred, allocated, or appropriated.</p><p>All moneys in the Fund shall first be used for debt service payments on bonds or obligations for which the Fund is expressly required for making debt service payments, to the extent needed. The Fund shall be considered a part of the Transportation Trust Fund. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes enumerated in subsection B. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller.</p><p>B. The Board shall use the Fund to facilitate the financing of priority transportation projects throughout the Commonwealth. The Board may use the Fund by (i) expending amounts therein on such projects directly; (ii) payment to any authority, locality, commission, or other entity for the purpose of paying the costs thereof; or (iii) using such amounts to support, secure, or leverage financing for such projects. No expenditures from or other use of amounts in the Fund shall be considered in allocating highway maintenance and construction funds under § <a href='/vacode/33.2-358/'>33.2-358</a> or apportioning Transportation Trust Fund funds under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-638/'>58.1-638</a> but shall be in addition thereto. The Board shall use the Fund to facilitate the financing of priority transportation projects as designated by the General Assembly, provided that at the discretion of the Board funds allocated to projects within a transportation district may be allocated among projects within the same transportation district as needed to meet construction cash-flow needs.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, beginning July 1, 2007, no bonds, obligations, or other evidences of debt (the bonds) that expressly require as a source for debt service payments or for the repayment of such bonds the revenues of the Fund shall be issued or entered into, unless at the time of the issuance the revenues then in the Fund or reasonably anticipated to be deposited into the Fund pursuant to the law then in effect are by themselves sufficient to make 100 percent of the contractually required debt service payments on all such bonds, including any interest related thereto and the retirement of such bonds.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1019'>1019</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1044'>1044</a>, § 33.1-23.03:8; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0896'>896</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0766'>766</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>