# ยง 38.2-6101 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter:</p> <p> "Contract holder" means (i) with respect to group contracts, the organization or entity to which the dental benefit contract is issued, and (ii) with respect to individual contracts, the individual who enters into a dental benefit contract covering the individual or the individual and dependents of the individual.</p> <p> "Copayment" means the amount payable for a particular service by an enrollee in accordance with the patient charge schedule or for which the enrollee is responsible as a condition for receiving benefits under a dental benefit contract. A copayment may be expressed as a specific dollar amount or as a percentage of the allowable charge for a service.</p> <p> "Dental benefit contract" means a contract that provides benefits for dental services entered into between the dental plan organization and a contract holder.</p> <p> "Dental plan" means a contractual arrangement for dental services provided or arranged for, that pays benefits or is administered on an individual or group basis. A dental plan includes, but is not limited to, an arrangement where fixed indemnity benefits are paid to an individual or provider for dental services.</p> <p> "Dental plan organization" means a company that provides directly or arranges for a dental plan.</p> <p> "Dental service" means a service included in the current Dental Terminology Manual issued by the American Dental Association.</p> <p> "Dependent" means an individual who is the spouse or child of a subscriber.</p> <p> "Enrollee" means an individual or a dependent of an individual who is enrolled in a dental plan.</p> <p> "Evidence of coverage" means any certificate, agreement, or contract issued to a subscriber of a group that sets out the dental services to which the enrollees are entitled.</p> <p> "Fixed indemnity benefits" means the payment amount or amounts stated in the reimbursement schedule of a dental plan organization that will be paid to a subscriber, or to the subscriber's dentist, for dental services.</p> <p> "Plan dentist" means any dentist, licensed by the Virginia Board of Dentistry, who has contracted with the dental plan organization or with an entity acting on behalf of the dental plan organization to provide dental services to the enrollees. A dental plan organization may, but is not required to, utilize plan dentists.</p> <p> "Plan dentist contract" means a contract between the dental plan organization or an entity acting on behalf of the dental plan organization and a plan dentist.</p> <p> "Subscriber" means (i) with respect to group dental benefit contracts, the person who is covered by the contract, other than as a dependent, by satisfying the eligibility requirements of the group, and (ii) with respect to individual dental benefit contracts, the individual who obtains coverage of the individual only or the individual and dependents of the individual.</p><p> 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0668'>668</a>.</p>