# ยง 45.2-1148  Frequency of mine inspections.

<p>A. The Director shall conduct a complete inspection of each underground mineral mine at least every 180 days, and of any surface mineral mine that is not inspected by MSHA at least once per year. An additional inspection of such mineral mine shall be made when deemed appropriate by the Director based on an evaluation of risks at such mine or if requested by miners employed at a mine or the licensed operator of a mine.</p><p>B. The Director shall not conduct an inspection of a surface mineral mine that is inspected by MSHA; however, a mine inspector or other employee of the Department may enter such mine in order to (i) respond to a complaint of a violation of the Act; (ii) respond to and investigate any serious personal injury or death; and (iii) with the consent of the licensed operator, conduct training programs.</p><p>C. The Director shall determine whether a particular surface mineral mine is inspected by MSHA. The Director shall make such determination based on information provided by MSHA and Department records.</p><p>D. The Director shall request representatives of MSHA to serve with Department personnel on a joint committee of cooperation. The committee shall include the Director of the Division and such additional Division employees as the Director designates. The committee shall meet at least twice annually at the call of the Director for the purpose of facilitating communication and resolving discrepancies regarding the inspection responsibilities of state and federal agencies with respect to surface mineral mines in the Commonwealth.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390'>390</a>, ยง 45.1-161.292:54; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0695'>695</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>