# ยง 30-192.4 Powers and duties of the Commission.

<p>The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. Identify, plan, develop, and implement appropriate programs and events that further the philosophy and memory of Dr. King;</p><p>2. Monitor the educational goals, programs, and objectives of public and private schools to encourage the recognition and inclusion of the achievements and contributions of ethnic and minority groups;</p><p>3. Inventory and review, biennially, activities and events sponsored by localities in the Commonwealth and those instituted or offered by public and private schools and institutions of higher education designed to honor Dr. King's memory;</p><p>4. Facilitate the analysis of public policy relative to Dr. King's principles and philosophy, including his work pertaining to social and economic justice, ethics, and racial equality, and promote the appreciation of diverse cultures among the citizenry;</p><p>5. Collaborate with The King Center in Atlanta and other established state and local entities and community organizations in activities and events that commemorate the birth and death, and in initiatives designed to perpetuate the work and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.;</p><p>6. Establish a memorial to honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., in which (i) records, oral histories, and memorabilia documenting his relationship with and impact on the Commonwealth may be acquired and preserved; (ii) information concerning his life, work, teachings, writings, and philosophy may be collected, preserved, and accessed for educational and cultural purposes; and (iii) scholarly inquiry and writing, undergraduate and graduate study, and policy analysis may be conducted;</p><p>7. Encourage and support collaborative activities among state, local, and national organizations that (i) emphasize the noncommercialization of the state and federal King Holiday, (ii) present his life and achievements in historical context, (iii) articulate the relationship between his philosophy, contributions, and current public policies, and (iv) demonstrate his principles consistently through significant participation of persons of diverse racial, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds in public and private endeavors and enterprises;</p><p>8. Monitor and evaluate state, local, and national public policy relative to the principles and philosophy of Dr. King, and make appropriate recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly to maintain progress towards social and economic justice and equal opportunity for all citizens;</p><p>9. Apply for and expend such gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds from any source as may be received or that becomes available in connection with its duties under this chapter, and may comply with such conditions and requirements as may be imposed in connection therewith;</p><p>10. Seek, accept, and direct the expenditure of public and private contributions to enable it to carry out the purposes of this chapter and to enhance its fiscal stability, financial management, and fund-raising abilities; and</p><p>11. Perform such other functions and activities as may be necessary to facilitate or implement the Commission's objectives.</p><p>2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1035'>1035</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1037'>1037</a>.</p>