# § 22.1-276.01 Definitions.

<p>A. For the purposes of this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Alternative education program" includes night school, adult education, or any other education program designed to offer instruction to students for whom the regular program of instruction may be inappropriate.</p><p>"Bullying" means any aggressive and unwanted behavior that is intended to harm, intimidate, or humiliate the victim; involves a real or perceived power imbalance between the aggressor or aggressors and victim; and is repeated over time or causes severe emotional trauma. "Bullying" includes cyber bullying. "Bullying" does not include ordinary teasing, horseplay, argument, or peer conflict.</p><p>"Disruptive behavior" means a violation of school board regulations governing student conduct that interrupts or obstructs the learning environment.</p><p>"Dress or grooming code" means any practice, policy, or portion of a code of student conduct adopted by a school board that governs or restricts the attire, appearance, or grooming, including hairstyle, of any enrolled student.</p><p>"Exclusion" means a Virginia school board's denial of school admission to a student who has been expelled or has been placed on a long-term suspension of more than 30 calendar days by another school board or a private school, either in Virginia or another state, or for whom admission has been withdrawn by a private school in Virginia or another state.</p><p>"Expulsion" means any disciplinary action imposed by a school board or a committee thereof, as provided in school board policy, whereby a student is not permitted to attend school within the school division and is ineligible for readmission for 365 calendar days after the date of the expulsion.</p><p>"Long-term suspension" means any disciplinary action whereby a student is not permitted to attend school for 11 to 45 school days.</p><p>"Short-term suspension" means any disciplinary action whereby a student is not permitted to attend school for a period not to exceed 10 school days.</p><p>B. For the purposes of §§ <a href='/vacode/22.1-277.04/'>22.1-277.04</a>, <a href='/vacode/22.1-277.05/'>22.1-277.05</a>, <a href='/vacode/22.1-277.2/'>22.1-277.2</a>, and <a href='/vacode/22.1-277.2:1/'>22.1-277.2:1</a>, "superintendent's designee" means a (i) trained hearing officer or (ii) professional employee within the administrative offices of the school division who reports directly to the division superintendent and who is not a school-based instructional or administrative employee.</p><p>2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0688'>688</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0820'>820</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0575'>575</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0491'>491</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0678'>678</a>.</p>