# ยง 8.9A-628 Nonliability and limitation on liability of secured party; liability of secondary obligor.

<p>(a) Limitation of liability of secured party for noncompliance with title. Unless a secured party knows that a person is a debtor or obligor, knows the identity of the person, and knows how to communicate with the person:</p><p>(1) the secured party is not liable to the person, or to a secured party or lienholder that has filed a financing statement against the person, for failure to comply with this title; and</p><p>(2) the secured party's failure to comply with this title does not affect the liability of the person for a deficiency.</p><p>(b) Limitation of liability based on status as secured party. A secured party is not liable because of its status as secured party:</p><p>(1) to a person that is a debtor or obligor, unless the secured party knows:</p><p>(A) that the person is a debtor or obligor;</p><p>(B) the identity of the person; and</p><p>(C) how to communicate with the person; or</p><p>(2) to a secured party or lienholder that has filed a financing statement against a person, unless the secured party knows:</p><p>(A) that the person is a debtor; and</p><p>(B) the identity of the person.</p><p>(c) Limitation of liability if reasonable belief that transaction not a consumer-goods transaction or consumer transaction. A secured party is not liable to any person, and a person's liability for a deficiency is not affected, because of any act or omission arising out of the secured party's reasonable belief that a transaction is not a consumer-goods transaction or a consumer transaction or that goods are not consumer goods, if the secured party's belief is based on its reasonable reliance on:</p><p>(1) a debtor's representation concerning the purpose for which collateral was to be used, acquired, or held; or</p><p>(2) an obligor's representation concerning the purpose for which a secured obligation was incurred.</p><p>(d) Limitation of liability for statutory damages. A secured party is not liable to any person under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-625/'>8.9A-625</a> (c) (2) for its failure to comply with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-616/'>8.9A-616</a>.</p><p>(e) Limitation of multiple liability for statutory damages. A secured party is not liable under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-625/'>8.9A-625</a> (c) (2) more than once with respect to any one secured obligation.</p><p>2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>.</p>