# ยง 33.2-290 Executive Director; agents and employees.

<p>A. The Board shall employ an Executive Director of the Authority, who shall not be a member of the Board and who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board, to direct the day-to-day operations and activities of the Authority and carry out the powers and duties conferred upon him as may be delegated to him by the Board. The Executive Director's compensation from the Commonwealth shall be fixed by the Board in accordance with law. This compensation shall be established at a level that will enable the Authority to attract and retain a capable Executive Director.</p><p>B. The Executive Director shall employ or retain such other agents or employees subordinate to the Executive Director as may be necessary, subject to the Board's approval.</p><p>C. Employees of the Authority shall be employed on such terms and conditions as established by the Authority and shall be considered employees of the Commonwealth. Employees of the Authority shall be eligible for membership in the Virginia Retirement System or other retirement plans authorized by Article 4 (ยง <a href='/vacode/51.1-125/'>51.1-125</a> et seq.) of Chapter 1 of Title 51.1 and participation in all health and related insurance and other benefits, including premium coverage and flexible benefits, available to state employees and provided by law. The Board shall develop and adopt personnel rules, policies, and procedures to give its employees grievance rights, ensure that employment decisions shall be based upon merit and fitness of applicants, and prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, sexual orientation, marital status, or disability. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board shall develop, implement, and administer a paid leave program, which may include annual, personal, and sick leave or any combination thereof. All other leave benefits shall be administered in accordance with Chapter 11 (ยง <a href='/vacode/51.1-1100/'>51.1-1100</a> et seq.) or Chapter 11.1 (ยง <a href='/vacode/51.1-1150/'>51.1-1150</a> et seq.) of Title 51.1, except as otherwise provided in this section.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>