# § 2.2-2239.1 Advisory Committee on Business Development and Marketing.

<p>A. The Board shall establish an Advisory Committee on Business Development and Marketing (the Committee) consisting of 10 nonlegislative citizen members representing local or regional economic development entities from each of the regions designated by the Virginia Growth and Opportunity Board in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2486/'>2.2-2486</a> as follows:</p><p>1. Four nonlegislative citizen members, at least one of whom shall be from Northern Virginia, one of whom shall be from Hampton Roads, and one of whom shall be from Richmond, to be appointed by the Governor and approved by the General Assembly;</p><p>2. Five nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Joint Rules Committee; and</p><p>3. One nonlegislative citizen member of the Board appointed by the Chairman of the Board.</p><p>B. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed. Members appointed to the Committee shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Administrative and staff support for the Committee shall be provided by the Authority upon approval of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. The Committee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>C. The Committee shall advise the Board on all matters relating to business development and marketing and shall make recommendations upon request of the Board.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0804'>804</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0824'>824</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0829'>829</a>.</p>