# ยง 3.2-700 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Certificate" means a document issued or authorized by the Commissioner indicating that a regulated article is not contaminated with a pest.</p><p>"Host" means any plant or plant product upon which a pest is dependent for completion of any portion of its life cycle.</p><p>"Infested" means actually infested or infected with a pest or so exposed to infestation that it would be reasonable to believe that an infestation exists.</p><p>"Move" means to ship, offer for shipment, receive for transportation, carry, or otherwise transport, move or allow to be moved.</p><p>"Permit" means a document issued or authorized by the Commissioner to provide for the movement of regulated articles to restricted destinations for limited handling, utilization, or processing.</p><p>"Person" means the term as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/1-230/'>1-230</a>. The term also means any society.</p><p>"Pest" means an insect, disease, parasitic plant, or other organism of any character whatever, in any living stage, vertebrate or invertebrate, causing or capable of causing injury or damage to any plant or part thereof or any processed, manufactured, or other product of plants, or otherwise creating a public nuisance.</p><p>"Regulated article" means any article of any character carrying or capable of carrying the pest against which the quarantine is directed.</p><p>1975, c. 29, ยง 3.1-188.20; 1980, c. 291; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>