# ยง 2.2-2664 Virginia Interagency Coordinating Council; purpose; membership; duties.

<p>A. The Virginia Interagency Coordinating Council (the Council) is established as an advisory council, within the meaning of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2100/'>2.2-2100</a>, in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Council shall be to promote and coordinate early intervention services in the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The membership and operation of the Council shall be as required by Part C of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. ยง 1431 et seq.). The Commissioner of the Department of Health, the Director of the Department for the Deaf and Hard-of-Hearing, the Superintendent of Public Instruction, the Director of the Department of Medical Assistance Services, the Commissioner of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, the Commissioner of Social Services, the Commissioner of the Department for the Blind and Vision Impaired, and the Commissioner of the Bureau of Insurance within the State Corporation Commission shall each appoint one person from his agency to serve as the agency's representative on the Council. The Director of the Commonwealth's designated protection and advocacy system may appoint one person from his agency to serve as the agency's representative on the Council.</p><p>Agency representatives shall regularly inform their agency head of the Council's activities and the status of the implementation of an early intervention services system in the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The Council's duties shall include advising and assisting the state lead agency in the following:</p><p>1. Performing its responsibilities for the early intervention services system;</p><p>2. Identifying sources of fiscal and other support for early intervention services, recommending financial responsibility arrangements among agencies, and promoting interagency agreements;</p><p>3. Developing strategies to encourage full participation, coordination, and cooperation of all appropriate agencies;</p><p>4. Resolving interagency disputes;</p><p>5. Gathering information about problems that impede timely and effective service delivery and taking steps to ensure that any identified policy problems are resolved;</p><p>6. Preparing federal grant applications; and</p><p>7. Preparing and submitting an annual report to the Governor and the U.S. Secretary of Education on the status of early intervention services within the Commonwealth.</p><p>1992, c. 771, ยง 2.1-765; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0038'>38</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0695'>695</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0571'>571</a>.</p>