# § 33.2-1023 Proceedings for distribution of funds; effect of acceptance of payments; evidence as to amount of deposit or certificate.

<p>A. Any person or persons shown by a certificate to be entitled thereto may petition the court for the distribution of all or any part of the funds deposited with the court pursuant to subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1019/'>33.2-1019</a> or represented by a certificate of deposit filed pursuant to subdivision A 2 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1019/'>33.2-1019</a>. Any costs of filing such petition or otherwise withdrawing the funds shall be taxed against the Commissioner of Highways.</p><p>B. A copy of such petition shall be served on the Commissioner of Highways, his deputy, or any attorney authorized to accept service with a notice, returnable to the court or judge not less than 21 days after such service, to show cause, if any, why such amount should not be distributed in accordance with the prayers of the petition.</p><p>C. If the Commissioner of Highways does not, on or before the return day of the petition, show such cause, and if the record in the proceeding does not disclose any denial or dispute with respect thereto, the court shall enter an order directing the distribution of such amount in accordance with the prayers of the petition. However, in the case of a nonresident petitioner the court may require a bond before ordering the distribution.</p><p>D. If funds have been deposited with the court pursuant to subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1019/'>33.2-1019</a>, any interest that has accrued on the funds shall be payable to the person or persons entitled to receive such funds.</p><p>E. If funds are not then on deposit with the court but are represented by a certificate of deposit filed pursuant to subdivision A 2 of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1019/'>33.2-1019</a>, a certified copy of such order shall forthwith be sent to the Commissioner of Highways by the clerk. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Highways to deposit such funds with the court within 21 days of the date of such order.</p><p>F. Interest shall be payable on funds represented by a certificate of deposit from the date of filing of the certificate of deposit until the funds are paid into court at no less than the judgment rate of interest as set forth in § <a href='/vacode/8.01-382/'>8.01-382</a>. However, interest shall not accrue if an injunction is filed against the Department that enjoins the taking of the property described in the certificate.</p><p>G. If the Commissioner of Highways shows such cause, or if the record in the proceeding discloses any denial or dispute as to the persons entitled to such distribution or to any interest or share therein, the court shall direct such proceedings as are provided by § <a href='/vacode/25.1-240/'>25.1-240</a> for the distribution of awards.</p><p>H. However, the acceptance of such payment shall not limit the amount to be allowed by a commissioner in a condemnation proceeding, nor limit the rights of any party or parties to the proceeding to appeal from any decision therein; nor shall any party to such proceeding be entitled to introduce evidence of any amount deposited with the court or represented by a certificate, nor of any amount that has been accepted by any party entitled thereto pursuant to this section.</p><p>I. All funds due and owing pursuant to this section shall be payable promptly to the owner or, if the owner consents, to the owner's attorney. Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter the priority of liens or any obligation to satisfy or release any outstanding liens on the property or the funds.</p><p>Code 1950, § 33-70.6; 1958, c. 581; 1964, c. 487; 1968, c. 232; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-124; 1972, c. 765; 1985, c. 594; 1987, c. 641; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0584'>584</a>; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0019'>19</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0047'>47</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0940'>940</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1245'>1245</a>.</p>