# § 22.1-270 Preschool physical examinations.

<p>A. No pupil shall be admitted for the first time to any public kindergarten or elementary school in a school division unless such pupil shall furnish, prior to admission, (i) a report from a qualified licensed physician, or a licensed nurse practitioner or licensed physician assistant acting under the supervision of a licensed physician, of a comprehensive physical examination of a scope prescribed by the State Health Commissioner performed within the 12 months prior to the date such pupil first enters such public kindergarten or elementary school or (ii) records establishing that such pupil furnished such report upon prior admission to another school or school division and providing the information contained in such report.</p><p>If the pupil is a homeless child or youth as defined in subdivision A 7 of § <a href='/vacode/22.1-3/'>22.1-3</a>, and for that reason cannot furnish the report or records required by (i) or (ii) of this subsection, and the person seeking to enroll the pupil furnishes to the school division an affidavit so stating and also indicating that, to the best of his knowledge, such pupil is in good health and free from any communicable or contagious disease, the school division shall immediately refer the student to the local school division liaison, as described in Subtitle VII-B of the federal McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. § 11431 et seq.) (the Act), who shall, as soon as practicable, assist in obtaining the necessary physical examination by the county or city health department or other clinic or physician's office and shall immediately admit the pupil to school, as required by such Act.</p><p>B. The physician, or licensed nurse practitioner or licensed physician assistant acting under the supervision of a licensed physician, making a report of a physical examination required by this section shall, at the end of such report, summarize the abnormal physical findings, if any, and shall specifically state what, if any, conditions are found that would identify the child as handicapped.</p><p>C. Such physical examination report shall be placed in the child's health record at the school and shall be made available for review by any employee or official of the State Department of Health or any local health department at the request of such employee or official.</p><p>D. Such physical examination shall not be required of any child whose parent shall object on religious grounds and who shows no visual evidence of sickness, provided that such parent shall state in writing that, to the best of his knowledge, such child is in good health and free from any communicable or contagious disease.</p><p>E. The health departments of all of the counties and cities of the Commonwealth shall conduct such physical examinations for medically indigent children without charge upon request and may provide such examinations to others on such uniform basis as such departments may establish.</p><p>F. Parents of entering students shall complete a health information form which shall be distributed by the local school divisions. Such forms shall be developed and provided jointly by the Department of Education and Department of Health, or developed and provided by the school division and approved by the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Such forms shall be returnable within 15 days of receipt unless reasonable extensions have been granted by the superintendent or his designee. Upon failure of the parent to complete such form within the extended time, the superintendent may send to the parent written notice of the date he intends to exclude the child from school; however, no child who is a homeless child or youth as defined in subdivision A 7 of § <a href='/vacode/22.1-3/'>22.1-3</a> shall be excluded from school for such failure to complete such form.</p><p>Code 1950, § 22-220.1; 1972, c. 761; 1973, c. 300; 1974, c. 160; 1979, cc. 120, 260; 1980, c. 559; 1982, c. 510; 1983, c. 195; 1985, c. 334; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0209'>209</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0617'>617</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0646'>646</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0261'>261</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0500'>500</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0967'>967</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0394'>394</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0586'>586</a>.</p>