# ยง 13.1-830 Reserved name.

<p>A. A person may apply to the Commission to reserve the exclusive use of a corporate name, including a designated name for a foreign corporation. If the Commission finds that the corporate name applied for is distinguishable upon the records of the Commission, it shall reserve the name for the applicant's exclusive use for a 120-day period.</p><p>B. The owner of a reserved corporate name may renew the reservation for successive periods of 120 days each by filing with the Commission, during the 45-day period preceding the date of expiration of the reservation, a renewal application.</p><p>C. The owner of a reserved corporate name may transfer the reservation to another person by delivering to the Commission a notice of the transfer, signed by the applicant for whom the name was reserved, and specifying the name and address of the transferee.</p><p>D. A reserved corporate name may be used by its owner in connection with (i) the formation of, or an amendment to change the name of, a domestic stock or nonstock corporation, limited liability company, business trust, or limited partnership; (ii) an application for a certificate of authority or registration to transact business in the Commonwealth as a foreign stock or nonstock corporation, limited liability company, business trust, or limited partnership; or (iii) an amended application for such authority or registration, provided that the proposed name complies with the provisions of ยง <a href='/vacode/13.1-630/'>13.1-630</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-762/'>13.1-762</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-829/'>13.1-829</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-924/'>13.1-924</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-1012/'>13.1-1012</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-1054/'>13.1-1054</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-1214/'>13.1-1214</a>, <a href='/vacode/13.1-1244/'>13.1-1244</a>, <a href='/vacode/50-73.2/'>50-73.2</a>, or <a href='/vacode/50-73.56/'>50-73.56</a>, as the case may be.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 13.1-207.1; 1975, c. 500; 1985, c. 522; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0505'>505</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0444'>444</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>