# ยง 6.2-1075 Organization; minimum capital; notice to Bureau; control.

<p>A. No person other than a corporation or limited liability company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth to engage exclusively in the private trust business shall act as a private trust company.</p><p>B. No person may act as a private trust company unless and until family members have subscribed for capital stock or interests, surplus, and a reserve for operation in an amount equal to or in excess of $500,000.</p><p>C. No person shall engage in business as a private trust company without first giving written notice to the Bureau. The notice shall identify (i) the designated relative whose relationship to other individuals determines whether the individuals are family members and (ii) the location of the principal office and additional office, if any, within the Commonwealth. The notice shall be accompanied by an operating plan and such other books, records, documents, or information as the Commissioner may require. The notice shall also certify that (a) all provisions of law have been complied with; (b) the private trust company is formed for no other reason than to engage in the private trust business; and (c) family members have subscribed for capital stock, surplus, and a reserve for operation in an amount equal to or in excess of $500,000.</p><p>D. All of the capital stock, membership interests, or other equity interests of a private trust company shall be and shall remain owned by, and under the voting control of, family members, including any spouses, trusts, stock corporations, limited partnerships, limited liability companies, or estates qualifying under subdivision 2, 3, 4, or 5 of the definition of "family member" set forth in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1074/'>6.2-1074</a>, of one or more families.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>, ยง 6.1-32.30:2; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>