# ยง 58.1-3506.1 Other classification for taxation of certain tangible personal property owned by certain elderly and handicapped persons.

<p>The governing body of any county, city or town may, by ordinance, levy a tax on one motor vehicle owned and used primarily by or for anyone at least 65 years of age or anyone found to be permanently and totally disabled, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-3506.3/'>58.1-3506.3</a>, at a different rate from the tax levied on other tangible personal property, upon such conditions as the ordinance may prescribe. Such rate shall not exceed the tangible personal property tax on the general class of tangible personal property. For purposes of this article, the term motor vehicle shall include only automobiles and pickup trucks. Any such motor vehicle owned by married individuals may qualify if either spouse is 65 or over or if either spouse is permanently and totally disabled. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or article, for any automobile or pickup truck that is (i) a qualifying vehicle, as such term is defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-3523/'>58.1-3523</a>, and (ii) assessed for tangible personal property taxes by a county, city, or town receiving a payment from the Commonwealth under Chapter 35.1 (ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-3523/'>58.1-3523</a> et seq.) for providing tangible personal property tax relief, the rate of tax levied pursuant to this article shall not exceed the rates of tax and rates of assessment required under such chapter.</p><p>1991, c. 646; 2004, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0900'>900</a>.</p>