# ยง 54.1-4413.3 Standards of conduct and practice.

<p>Persons using the CPA title in Virginia and firms providing attest services, compilation services, or financial statement preparation services to persons or entities located in Virginia shall conform to the following standards of conduct and practice.</p><p>1. Exercise sensitive professional and moral judgment in all activities.</p><p>2. Act in a way that serves the public interest, honors the public trust, and demonstrates commitment to professionalism.</p><p>3. Perform all professional responsibilities with the highest sense of integrity, maintain objectivity and freedom from conflicts of interest in discharging professional responsibilities, and avoid knowingly misrepresenting facts or inappropriately subordinating judgment to others.</p><p>4. Follow the Code of Professional Conduct, and the related interpretive guidance, issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or any successor standard-setting authorities.</p><p>5. Follow the technical standards, and the related interpretive guidance, issued by committees and boards of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants that are designated by the Council of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants to promulgate technical standards, or that are issued by any successor standard-setting authorities.</p><p>6. Follow the standards, and the related interpretive guidance, as applicable under the circumstances, issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Governmental Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission, comparable international standard-setting authorities, or any successor standard-setting authorities.</p><p>7. Do not engage in any activity that is false, misleading, or deceptive.</p><p>2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0804'>804</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0287'>287</a>.</p>