# ยง 15.2-1749 Revenue bonds.

<p>A. Each academy is hereby authorized, after a resolution adopted by a majority of its board of directors, to issue, at one time or from time to time, revenue bonds of the academy on a taxable or tax-exempt basis for the purpose of acquiring, purchasing, constructing, reconstructing, or improving training facilities and acquiring necessary land or equipment therefor, and to refund any bonds issued for such purposes. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty years from their issue date or dates and shall bear interest at such fixed or variable rate or rates as may be determined by the board of directors, and may be made redeemable before maturity at the option of the board of directors at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority prior to the issuance of the bonds. The board of directors shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and the manner of execution of the bonds, and shall affix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest, which may be at any bank or trust company within or outside the Commonwealth. In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature appears on any bonds or coupons ceases to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature or facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this article or any recitals in any bonds issued under the provisions of this article, all such bonds shall be deemed to be negotiable instruments under the laws of this Commonwealth. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form or both, as the board of directors may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bonds as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest, and for the reconversion into coupon bonds of any bonds registered as to both principal and interest. The board of directors may sell such bonds in such manner, either at public or private sale, and for such price as it may determine to be for the best interests of the academy.</p><p>B. The resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds, and any trust agreement securing such bonds, may also contain such limitations upon the issuance of additional revenue bonds as the board of directors may deem proper and such additional bonds as shall be issued under such restriction and limitations as may be prescribed by such resolution or trust agreement.</p><p>C. Bonds may be issued under the provisions of this article without obtaining the consent of any commission, board, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision and without any other proceedings or conditions as are specifically required by this article.</p><p>D. Bonds issued under the provisions of this article shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision thereof or a pledge of the faith and credit of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision thereof. The bonds shall be payable solely from revenues or other property of the academy specifically pledged for such purpose.</p><p>E. "Bonds" or "revenue bonds" as used in this article shall embrace notes, bonds and other obligations authorized to be issued pursuant to this article.</p><p>1993, c. 935, ยง 15.1-159.7:3; 1997, c. 587.</p>