# § 13.1-711 Restated articles of incorporation.

<p>A. A corporation's board of directors may restate its articles of incorporation at any time with or without shareholder approval.</p><p>B. The restatement may include one or more new amendments to the articles of incorporation. If the restatement includes one or more new amendments requiring shareholder approval, the new amendment or amendments shall be adopted and approved as provided in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-707/'>13.1-707</a>.</p><p>C. A corporation restating its articles of incorporation shall file with the Commission articles of restatement setting forth:</p><p>1. The name of the corporation immediately prior to restatement;</p><p>2. Whether the restatement contains a new amendment of the articles of incorporation;</p><p>3. The text of the restated articles of incorporation;</p><p>4. If the restatement includes a new amendment that provides for an exchange, reclassification, or cancellation of issued shares, provisions for implementing the amendment, which provisions may be made dependent upon facts objectively ascertainable outside the articles of restatement in accordance with subsection L of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-604/'>13.1-604</a>;</p><p>5. The date of the restatement's adoption;</p><p>6. If the restatement does not contain a new amendment of the articles, a statement that the restatement was adopted by the board of directors or approved by the shareholders;</p><p>7. If the restatement contains a new amendment of the articles not requiring shareholder approval, a statement that the restatement was adopted by the board of directors without shareholder approval pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-706/'>13.1-706</a> or subdivision L 5 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-604/'>13.1-604</a>, as the case may be; and</p><p>8. If the restatement contains a new amendment of the articles requiring shareholder approval, a statement that the restatement (i) was adopted by the unanimous consent of the shareholders or (ii) was adopted by the board of directors, was submitted to the shareholders in accordance with this article, and was duly approved by the shareholders in the manner required by this chapter and by the articles of incorporation.</p><p>D. If the Commission finds that the articles of restatement comply with the requirements of law and that all required fees have been paid, it shall issue a certificate of restatement. When the certificate of restatement is effective the restated articles of incorporation supersede the original or previously restated articles of incorporation and all amendments of them.</p><p>E. The Commission may certify restated articles of incorporation or amended and restated articles of incorporation as the articles of incorporation currently in effect.</p><p>1985, c. 522; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0497'>497</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>