# ยง 3.2-400 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Agricultural activity" means any activity used in the production of food and fiber, including farming, feedlots, grazing livestock, poultry raising, dairy farming, and aquaculture activities.</p><p>"Agricultural stewardship plan" or "plan" means a site-specific plan for an agricultural activity to manage, through use of stewardship measures, one or more of the following: soil, water, plants, plant nutrients, pest controls, wastes, and animals.</p><p>"Board" means the Soil and Water Conservation Board.</p><p>"Complaint" means an allegation made by any person to the Commissioner that an owner's or operator's agricultural activity is creating or, if not changed, will create pollution and that states the location and nature of such agricultural activity.</p><p>"District" or "soil and water conservation district" means a political subdivision of the Commonwealth organized in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-500/'>10.1-500</a> et seq.) of Title 10.1.</p><p>"Informal fact-finding conference" means an informal fact-finding conference conducted in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4019/'>2.2-4019</a>.</p><p>"Operator" means any person who exercises managerial control over any agricultural activity.</p><p>"Owner" means any person who owns land where an agricultural activity occurs.</p><p>"Pollution" means any alteration of the physical, chemical, or biological properties of any state waters resulting from sedimentation, nutrients, or toxins.</p><p>"State waters" means all water, on the surface or in the ground, wholly or partially within or bordering the Commonwealth or within its jurisdiction.</p><p>"Stewardship measures" or "measures" means measures for controlling the addition of pollutants from existing and new categories and classes of nonpoint sources of pollution that reflect the pollutant reduction achievable through the application of the best available nonpoint pollution control methods, technologies, processes, siting criteria, operating methods, or other alternatives.</p><p>"Stewardship measures" or "measures" includes: (i) agricultural water quality protection management measures described in the Virginia Agricultural Best Management Practices Manual; and (ii) agricultural water quality protection management measures contained in the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service Field Office Technical Guide.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0773'>773</a>, ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-559.1/'>10.1-559.1</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0973'>973</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>