# ยง 2.2-2488 Formation of regional councils.

<p>A. A regional council may be established in each region identified by the Board. Regional councils shall solicit, review, and recommend regional activity projects to the Board in accordance with this article.</p><p>B. When there is no certified regional council in existence in a region, the Board may provide for the formation of a regional council by designating a formation committee chairman and two members from the region. The formation committee chairman shall be a nonlegislative citizen member of the Board, and the chairman may designate up to two additional members of the formation committee. The formation committee shall be responsible for such consultation and recruitment within the region as is likely to result in certification of a regional council for the region. The formation committee chairman and members may serve as officers and members of the regional council.</p><p>C. A regional council shall include representatives from (i) the education sector, including school divisions, community colleges, and public institutions of higher education; (ii) the economic and workforce development sector; (iii) local government; (iv) planning district commissions; (v) nonprofit organizations; and (vi) other entities that significantly affect regional economic or workforce development. Membership may include one or more nonlegislative citizen members of the Board from the region. A majority of the members of a regional council shall be from the private sector with demonstrated significant private-sector business experience. A regional council shall be chaired by a citizen member from the region with significant private-sector business experience.</p><p>D. The Board shall certify that the regional council member selection process, membership, governance, structure, composition, and leadership meet the requirements of this article and the program guidelines and procedures. The Board shall certify that the regional council has adopted bylaws and taken other such steps in its organizational activities and business plan as are necessary or required by Board guidelines and procedures to provide for accountability for and oversight of regional activities funded from the Fund.</p><p>E. Public comment shall be received by the Board when certifying a regional council.</p><p>2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0778'>778</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0779'>779</a>.</p>