# ยง 54.1-2012 Real Estate Appraiser Board; membership; chairman; meetings; seal.

<p>A. The Real Estate Appraiser Board shall be composed of 10 members as follows: (i) six members shall be licensed as real estate appraisers, provided that, at all times, at least two of the appraiser members on the Board shall be certified general real estate appraisers and one shall be a certified residential real estate appraiser, and provided further, that all six appraiser members have been licensed for a period of at least five years prior to their appointment; (ii) one member shall be an officer or employee familiar with mortgage lending of a financial institution as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-100/'>6.2-100</a> or an affiliate or subsidiary thereof; (iii) one member shall be an officer or employee of an appraisal management company; and (iv) two members shall be citizen members. The terms of Board members shall be four years.</p><p>The appointment of appraiser members may be made from lists of at least three names each, submitted by Virginia affiliates of professional appraisal organizations that are members of the Appraisal Foundation. The appointment of the bank or savings institution member may be made from lists of at least three names each, submitted by the Virginia Bankers Association and the Virginia Association of Community Banks. The appointment of the appraisal management company member may be made from lists of at least three names each, submitted by the Virginia Bankers Association. Nominations for appointments to regular terms shall be submitted to the Governor on or before June 1 of each year. The Governor may notify the above organizations of any vacancy other than by expiration and like nominations may be made for the filling of the vacancy. In no case shall the Governor be bound to make any appointment from among the nominees.</p><p>Notwithstanding ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-200/'>54.1-200</a>, all members of the Board, including the citizen members, shall be eligible to participate in all matters, including decisions regarding the examination of applicants for licensure and decisions regarding the professional competence of licensees.</p><p>The Board shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from its membership, provided that the chairman shall be an appraiser member.</p><p>The Board shall meet at least once each year, and additional meetings may be called by the chairman or, if the chairman is incapacitated, by the vice-chairman, as deemed necessary.</p><p>The Board shall adopt a seal by which it shall authenticate its proceedings.</p><p>B. As soon as practicable, the Board shall determine the anticipated availability of licensed and certified appraisers to perform appraisals in Virginia. If, at any time, the Board determines that there is, or will be, a scarcity of certified general real estate appraisers, certified residential real estate appraisers, or licensed residential real estate appraisers to perform appraisals in connection with federally related transactions in any part of Virginia that leads, or will lead, to significant delays in the performance of such appraisals, the Board, subject to federal approval, shall extend the effective date of the licensing requirements of this chapter to the extent permitted under any temporary waiver granted under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended (12 U.S.C. ยง 3301 et seq.).</p><p>1990, c. 459; 1992, c. 68; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0208'>208</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0505'>505</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0091'>91</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0522'>522</a>.</p>