# § 2.2-2315 Short title; declaration of public purpose; Authority created.

<p>A. This article shall be known and may be cited as the Virginia Tourism Authority Act.</p><p>B. The General Assembly finds and declares that:</p><p>1. There exists in all geographical regions of the Commonwealth a plethora of tourist attractions, including cultural, historical, commercial, educational, and recreational activities, locations, and sources of entertainment;</p><p>2. Such tourist attractions are of potential interest to millions of people who reside both in and outside the Commonwealth;</p><p>3. Promotion of tourism in the Commonwealth is necessary to increase the prosperity of the people of the Commonwealth;</p><p>4. A state tourism development authority is therefore necessary to stimulate the tourism segment of the economy by promoting, advertising, and marketing the Commonwealth's many tourist attractions and by coordinating other private and public efforts to do the same; and</p><p>5. The film industry is a legitimate and important part of economic development in the Commonwealth.</p><p>The General Assembly determines that the creation of an authority for this purpose is in the public interest, serves a public purpose and will promote the health, safety, welfare, convenience or prosperity of the people of the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The Virginia Tourism Authority is created, with the duties and powers set forth in this article, as a public body corporate and as a political subdivision of the Commonwealth. The Authority is constituted a public instrumentality exercising public and essential governmental functions, and the exercise by the Authority of the duties and powers conferred by this article shall be deemed and held to be the performance of an essential governmental function of the Commonwealth. The exercise of the powers granted by this article shall be in all respects for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Commonwealth and the increase of their commerce and prosperity. The Authority may do business as the "Virginia Tourism Corporation," and any references in the Code of Virginia or in any regulations adopted thereunder that refer to the Virginia Tourism Corporation shall, whenever necessary, be deemed to refer to the Authority.</p><p>1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0852'>852</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>, §§ 2.1-548.53, 2.1-548.54, 2.1-548.56; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>