# ยง 32.1-331.13 Medicaid Prior Authorization Advisory Committee; membership.

<p>The Board shall amend the state plan and promulgate regulations to establish the Medicaid Prior Authorization Advisory Committee, composed of 11 members to be appointed by the Board. Five members shall be physicians, at least three of whom shall care for a significant number of Medicaid patients; four shall be pharmacists, two of whom shall be community pharmacists; one member shall be an individual receiving mental health services; and one member shall be a Medicaid recipient. A quorum for action of the Committee shall consist of six members. The members shall serve at the pleasure of the Board, and vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. The Board shall consider nominations made by The Medical Society of Virginia, the Old Dominion Medical Society, the Psychiatric Society of Virginia, the Virginia Pharmaceutical Association, the National Alliance on Mental Illness of Virginia and the Virginia Mental Health Consumers Association when making appointments to the Committee.</p><p>The Committee shall elect its own officers, establish its own procedural rules, and meet as needed or as called by the Board, the Director, or any two members of the Committee. The Department shall provide appropriate staffing to the Committee.</p><p>1993, c. 537; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0515'>515</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507'>507</a>.</p>