# ยง 54.1-2311 Cemetery operators required to be licensed by the Board.

<p>No person shall engage in the business of a cemetery company in the Commonwealth without first being licensed by the Board. The cemetery company shall renew its license as required by the Board. Such license and such renewal of license shall (i) be on forms prescribed by the Board and shall include the name and address of each cemetery in Virginia in which the cemetery company has a business interest, the name and address of all officers and directors of the cemetery company, the registered agent for the cemetery company, the compliance agent, and any such other information as the Board may require consistent with the purposes of this chapter and (ii) include a fee as prescribed by the Board for each cemetery in Virginia in which the cemetery company has a business interest. The cemetery company shall notify the Board of any change in the information required to be filed within thirty days after the change. A new license shall be required if there is a change in the ownership of the cemetery company. If there is a change in the compliance agent designated by the cemetery company, it shall promptly notify the Board in writing. All fees shall be remitted to the State Treasurer and shall be placed to the credit and special fund of the Department to be used in the administration of this chapter.</p><p>1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0708'>708</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0721'>721</a>.</p>