# § 23.1-615 Soil scientist scholarships.

<p>A. The Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University Board of Visitors may establish up to 20 annual soil scientist scholarships for Virginia students in an amount equal to tuition and mandatory fees at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.</p><p>B. Each scholarship award shall be made upon such basis, competitive or otherwise, as is determined by the president or other proper officer of the institution of higher education (institution) that the applicant plans to attend, with due regard to the scholastic achievements, character, and adaptability of the applicant to the service contemplated under such award. No award shall be made unless the applicant possesses the requisite qualifications.</p><p>C. Each such scholarship shall be awarded for a single award year and may be renewed annually for up to three additional award years upon a showing of satisfactory progress.</p><p>D. Before any such scholarship is awarded, the applicant shall agree in a signed written contract to pursue soil science at the institution at which the scholarship is awarded until his graduation and, upon graduating, to promptly begin and engage continuously as a soil scientist as an employee of the Commonwealth for as many years as he was a beneficiary of such scholarship, unless no such suitable vacancy exists as an employee of the Commonwealth, in which case the obligation of such contract shall be discharged by being continuously engaged in the Commonwealth as a soil scientist as an employee of a local, state, or federal government agency for as many years as he was a beneficiary of such scholarship. The contract shall contain such other provisions as Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University deems necessary to accomplish the purposes of the scholarship. In the event that the holder of any awarded soil scientist scholarship dies while receiving instruction under such a scholarship, any balance unpaid and agreed to be repaid by the holder of such scholarship shall be deemed paid, and no liability shall be attached to his estate.</p><p>E. Such contract shall contain a clause under which the applicant shall be relieved of his obligation to serve the Commonwealth as a soil scientist, for a period equal to that during which he was a beneficiary of such scholarship, at any time that he (i) fails to maintain a scholastic standard at least equal to the standard required of the general student body at such institution or (ii) becomes permanently disabled and is not able to engage in the profession of soil scientist, upon certification by a faculty committee. Any applicant so relieved shall arrange to reimburse the Commonwealth for the amount received on account of such scholarship plus interest on such amount computed at the prevailing rate charged on student loans at the institution attended by the applicant. Any applicant who so reimburses the Commonwealth and subsequently fulfills the terms of his contract by completing his studies and serving the Commonwealth as a soil scientist for a period equal to that during which he received such scholarship shall be reimbursed from the general fund of the state treasury the amount of the scholarship and interest previously repaid to the Commonwealth. This reimbursement shall be made on any contract made under the provisions of this subsection.</p><p>F. All funds repaid by any applicant pursuant to subsection E shall be paid into the state treasury and shall become a part of the general fund. The governing board of the institution attended by the applicant shall collect such payments and shall pay all moneys so received into the state treasury promptly. If any applicant fails to abide by the terms of such contract, such fact shall be communicated to the Attorney General by the proper officer of the institution or by the employing state agency. The Attorney General shall take such action as he deems proper.</p><p>G. The funds making up each scholarship shall be paid to the recipient or applied toward the payment of his expenses at the relevant institution in such a manner and at such a time during the academic year as the president or other proper officer determines.</p><p>H. There is appropriated to Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University from the general fund of the state treasury the sum of $8,000 each year of the biennium for carrying out the purpose of this section.</p><p>1970, c. 620, §§ 23-38.3, 23-38.4, 23-38.5, 23-38.6, 23-38.7, 23-38.9, 23-38.10; 1972, c. 188; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>