# ยง 45.2-801  Shop and other equipment.

<p>A. The following items of shop and other equipment shall be guarded and maintained adequately:</p><p>1. Any gear, sprocket, pulley, fan blade or propeller, or friction device or coupling that has a protruding bolt or nut;</p><p>2. Shafting or any projecting shaft end that is within seven feet of the floor or platform level;</p><p>3. Any belt, chain, or rope drive that is within seven feet of the floor or platform;</p><p>4. Any fly wheel. A fly wheel extending more than seven feet above the floor shall be guarded to a height of at least seven feet;</p><p>5. Any circular or band saw or planer;</p><p>6. Any repair pit, including when the pit is not in use;</p><p>7. Any counterweight; and</p><p>8. Any mine fan, including the approach to any mine fan.</p><p>B. No machinery shall be repaired or serviced while the machinery is in motion; however, this prohibition shall not apply where a safe remote device is used.</p><p>C. Any guard or safety device that has been removed from any machine shall be replaced before the machine is put in operation.</p><p>D. Each mechanically operated grinding wheel shall be equipped with (i) safety washers and tool rests; (ii) substantial retaining hoods, the hood opening of which shall not expose more than a 90-degree sector of the wheel; and (iii) eyeshields, unless goggles are worn by the miners. Each retaining hood shall include either a device to control and collect excess rock, metal, or dust particles or a device providing equivalent protection to the miner operating such machinery.</p><p>E. The operator or his agent shall develop procedures for examining for potential hazards, completing proper maintenance, and properly operating each type of centrifugal pump. Such procedures shall, at a minimum, address the manufacturer's recommendations for start-up and shutdown of the pump, proper actions to be taken when a pump is suspected of overheating, the safe location of start and stop switches, and actions to be taken when a sign of structural metal fatigue, such as a crack in the frame, a damaged cover mounting bracket, or a missing bolt or other component is detected. Every miner who repairs, maintains, or operates any type of centrifugal pump shall be trained in these procedures.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-85.3; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-88; 1978, c. 118; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.124; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256'>256</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>