# § 23.1-213 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Academic-vocational non-college degree school" means a non-college degree school that offers degree and nondegree credit courses.</p><p>"Agent" means a person who is employed by any institution of higher education or non-college degree school, whether such institution or school is located within or outside the Commonwealth, to act as an agent, solicitor, procurer, broker, or independent contractor to procure students or enrollees for any such institution or school by solicitation in any form at any place in the Commonwealth other than the office or principal location of such institution or school.</p><p>"Certificate" means an award that is given by (i) institutions of higher education and academic-vocational non-college degree schools for successful completion of a curriculum consisting of courses that may also be taken for degree credit or (ii) vocational non-college degree schools for successful completion of a curriculum. "Certificate" includes a diploma.</p><p>"College" means any associate-degree-granting institution of higher education or institution of higher education at which a bachelor's degree is the most advanced degree that is granted.</p><p>"Continuing or professional education" means those classes, courses, and programs designed specifically for individuals who have completed a degree in a professional field that (i) are intended to fulfill the continuing education requirements for licensure or certification in such professional field, (ii) have been approved by a legislatively or judicially established board or agency responsible for regulating the practice of the profession, and (iii) are offered exclusively to an individual practicing in such professional field.</p><p>"Degree" means any earned award at the associate, baccalaureate, graduate, first professional, or specialist levels that represents satisfactory completion of the requirements of a program or course of study or instruction beyond the secondary school level.</p><p>"Degree credit" means any earned credits awarded for successful completion of the requirements of a course of study or instruction beyond the secondary school level that may be used toward completion of a certificate or degree.</p><p>"Distance learning" or "distance learning modality" means any course offered by a postsecondary school for which the primary mode of instructional delivery is by television, videocassette or disc, film, radio, computer, or other telecommunications devices.</p><p>"Fraudulent academic credential" means a certificate, academic transcript, or other document issued by a person or other entity that is not an institution of higher education that provides evidence of or demonstrates completion of coursework or academic credit that results in the issuance of a degree.</p><p>"Institution of higher education" or "institution" means any person or other entity, other than a public institution of higher education or any other entity authorized to issue bonds pursuant to Chapter 11 (§ <a href='/vacode/23.1-1100/'>23.1-1100</a> et seq.), that has received approval from the Council to (i) use the term "college" or "university," or words of like meaning, in its name or in any manner in connection with its academic affairs or business; (ii) enroll students; and (iii) offer approved courses for degree credit or programs of study leading to a degree or offer degrees either at a site or via a distance learning modality.</p><p>"Multistate compact" means any agreement involving two or more states to jointly offer postsecondary educational opportunities pursuant to policies and procedures established in such agreement and approved by the Council.</p><p>"Non-college degree school" means any person or other entity that offers courses or programs of study that do not lead to a degree. "Non-college degree school" includes academic-vocational non-college degree schools and vocational non-college degree schools.</p><p>"Nondegree credit" means any earned credits awarded for successful completion of the requirements of a course of study or instruction beyond the secondary school level that may be used toward completion of a certificate but may not be used to earn a degree.</p><p>"Out-of-state" means formed, chartered, established, or incorporated outside of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Postsecondary school" means any institution of higher education or non-college degree school offering formal instructional programs with a curriculum designed primarily for students who have completed the requirements for a high school diploma or its equivalent. "Postsecondary school" includes programs of academic, vocational, and continuing professional education, except courses or programs of continuing professional education set forth in subdivision B 4 of § <a href='/vacode/23.1-226/'>23.1-226</a>. "Postsecondary school" does not include avocational and adult basic education programs.</p><p>"Program" means a curriculum or course of study in a discipline or interdisciplinary area that leads to a degree or certificate.</p><p>"Program area" means a general group of disciplines in which one or more programs may be offered.</p><p>"Proprietary" means privately owned, privately managed, and corporately structured as a for-profit entity.</p><p>"Site" means a location in the Commonwealth where a postsecondary school (i) offers at least one course on an established schedule and (ii) enrolls at least two individuals who are not members of the same household, regardless of the presence or absence of administrative capability at such location.</p><p>"Teachout plan" means a written agreement between or among postsecondary schools that provides for the equitable treatment of students if one party to the agreement ceases to offer an educational program before all students enrolled in that program complete the program.</p><p>"University" means any baccalaureate institution of higher education.</p><p>"Vocational non-college degree school" means a non-college degree school that offers only courses for nondegree credit. "Vocational non-college degree school" does not include instructional programs that are intended solely for recreation, enjoyment, or personal interest or as a hobby or courses or instructional programs that prepare individuals to teach such pursuits.</p><p>Code 1950, § 23-265; 1980, c. 658; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0832'>832</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0458'>458</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0499'>499</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0178'>178</a>, § 23-276.1; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0671'>671</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0991'>991</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0447'>447</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0082'>82</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0115'>115</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0856'>856</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0067'>67</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0263'>263</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0229'>229</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0380'>380</a>.</p>