# ยง 46.2-341.10 Special provisions relating to commercial learner's permit.

<p>A. The Department upon receiving an application on forms prescribed by the Commissioner and upon the applicant's satisfactory completion of the vision and knowledge tests required for the class and type of commercial motor vehicle to be driven by the applicant may, in its discretion, issue to such applicant a commercial learner's permit. Such permit shall be valid for no more than one year from the date of issuance. No renewals are permitted. A commercial learner's permit shall entitle the applicant to drive a commercial motor vehicle of the class and type designated on the permit, but only when accompanied by a person licensed to drive the class and type of commercial motor vehicle driven by the applicant. The person accompanying the permit holder shall occupy the seat closest to the driver's seat for the purpose of giving instruction to the permit holder in driving the commercial motor vehicle.</p><p>B. No person shall be issued a commercial learner's permit unless he possesses a valid Virginia driver's license or has satisfied all the requirements necessary to obtain such a license.</p><p>C. A commercial learner's permit holder with a passenger (P) endorsement (i) must have taken and passed the P endorsement knowledge test and (ii) is prohibited from operating a commercial motor vehicle carrying passengers, other than federal or state auditors and inspectors, test examiners, other trainees, and the commercial driver's license holder accompanying the commercial learner's permit holder. The P endorsement must be class specific.</p><p>D. A commercial learner's permit holder with a school bus (S) endorsement (i) must have taken and passed the S endorsement knowledge test and (ii) is prohibited from operating a school bus with passengers other than federal or state auditors and inspectors, test examiners, other trainees, and the commercial driver's license holder accompanying the commercial learner's permit holder. No person shall be issued a commercial learner's permit to drive school buses or to drive any commercial vehicle to transport children to or from activities sponsored by a school or by a child day care facility licensed, regulated, or approved by the Department of Education during any period in which he is a person for whom registration with the Sex Offender and Crimes Against Minors Registry is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (ยง <a href='/vacode/9.1-900/'>9.1-900</a> et seq.) of Title 9.1.</p><p>E. A commercial learner's permit holder with a tank vehicle (N) endorsement (i) must have taken and passed the N endorsement knowledge test and (ii) may only operate an empty tank vehicle and is prohibited from operating any tank vehicle that previously contained hazardous materials that has not been purged of any residue.</p><p>F. The issuance of a commercial learner's permit is a precondition to the initial issuance of a commercial driver's license and to the upgrade of a commercial driver's license if the upgrade requires a skills test. The commercial learner's permit holder is not eligible to take the commercial driver's license skills test until he has held the permit for the required period of time specified in ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-324.1/'>46.2-324.1</a>.</p><p>G. Any commercial learner's permit holder who operates a commercial motor vehicle without being accompanied by a licensed driver as provided in this section is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.</p><p>H. The Department shall charge a fee of $3 for each commercial learner's permit issued under the provisions of this section.</p><p>1989, c. 705, ยง 46.1-372.10; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0477'>477</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0153'>153</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582'>582</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0077'>77</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0258'>258</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0750'>750</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861'>861</a>.</p>