# ยง 38.2-3418.15 Coverage for prosthetic devices and components.

<p>A. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3419/'>38.2-3419</a>, each insurer proposing to issue individual or group accident and sickness insurance policies providing hospital, medical and surgical, or major medical coverage on an expense-incurred basis; each corporation providing individual or group accident and sickness subscription contracts; and each health maintenance organization providing a health care plan for health care services shall offer and make available coverage for medically necessary prosthetic devices, their repair, fitting, replacement, and components, as follows:</p><p>1. As used in this section:</p><p>"Component" means the materials and equipment needed to ensure the comfort and functioning of a prosthetic device.</p><p>"Limb" means an arm, a hand, a leg, a foot, or any portion of an arm, a hand, a leg, or a foot.</p><p>"Prosthetic device" means an artificial device to replace, in whole or in part, a limb.</p><p>2. Prosthetic device coverage does not include repair and replacement due to enrollee neglect, misuse, or abuse. Coverage also does not include prosthetic devices designed primarily for an athletic purpose.</p><p>3. An insurer shall not impose any annual or lifetime dollar maximum on coverage for prosthetic devices other than an annual or lifetime dollar maximum that applies in the aggregate to all items and services covered under the policy. The coverage may be made subject to, and no more restrictive than, the provisions of a health insurance policy that apply to other benefits under the policy.</p><p>4. An insurer shall not apply amounts paid for prosthetic devices to any annual or lifetime dollar maximum applicable to other durable medical equipment covered under the policy other than an annual or lifetime dollar maximum that applies in the aggregate to all items and services covered under the policy.</p><p>5. No insurer, corporation, or health maintenance organization shall impose upon any person receiving benefits pursuant to this section any coinsurance in excess of 30 percent of the carrier's allowable charge for such prosthetic device or services when such device or service is provided by an in-network provider.</p><p>6. An insurer, corporation, or health maintenance organization may require preauthorization to determine medical necessity and the eligibility of benefits for prosthetic devices and components, in the same manner that prior authorization is required for any other covered benefit.</p><p>B. The requirements of this section shall apply to all insurance policies, contracts, and plans delivered, issued for delivery, reissued, or extended in the Commonwealth on and after January 1, 2010, or at any time thereafter when any term of the policy, contract, or plan is changed or any premium adjustment is made.</p><p>C. This section shall not apply to short-term travel, accident-only, or limited or specified disease policies or contracts, nor to policies or contracts designed for issuance to persons eligible for coverage under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, known as Medicare, or any other similar coverage under state or federal governmental plans.</p><p>2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0839'>839</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0814'>814</a>.</p>