# ยง 6.2-1600 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Entity" means any corporation, partnership, association, cooperative, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, or other legal or commercial entity.</p><p>"Licensee" means a mortgage lender or mortgage broker licensed by the Commission pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Mortgage broker" means any person who directly or indirectly negotiates, places or finds mortgage loans for others, or offers to negotiate, place or find mortgage loans for others. Any licensed mortgage lender that, pursuant to an executed originating agreement with the Virginia Housing Development Authority, acts or offers to act as an originating agent of the Virginia Housing Development Authority in connection with a mortgage loan shall not be deemed to be acting as a mortgage broker with respect to such mortgage loan but shall be deemed to be acting as a mortgage lender with respect to such mortgage loan, notwithstanding that the Virginia Housing Development Authority is or would be the payee on the note evidencing such mortgage loan and that the Virginia Housing Development Authority provides or would provide the funding of such mortgage loan prior to or at the settlement thereof.</p><p>"Mortgage lender" means any person who directly or indirectly originates or makes mortgage loans.</p><p>"Mortgage loan" means a loan made to an individual, the proceeds of which are to be used primarily for personal, family or household purposes, which loan is secured by a mortgage or deed of trust upon any interest in one- to four-family residential property located in the Commonwealth, regardless of where made, including the renewal or refinancing of any such loan, but excluding (i) loans to persons related to the lender by blood or marriage and (ii) loans to persons who are bona fide employees of the lender. "Mortgage loan" shall not include any loan secured by a mortgage or deed of trust upon any interest in a more than four-family residential property or property used for a commercial or agricultural purpose.</p><p>"Nationwide Mortgage Licensing System and Registry" or "Registry" means the mortgage licensing and registration system developed and maintained by the Conference of State Bank Supervisors and the American Association of Residential Mortgage Regulators.</p><p>"Person" means any individual or entity.</p><p>"Principal" means any person who, directly or indirectly, owns or controls a 10 percent or greater interest in any entity.</p><p>"Residential property" means improved real property used or occupied, or intended to be used or occupied, for residential purposes.</p><p>1987, c. 596, ยง 6.1-409; 1993, c. 183; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0422'>422</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0863'>863</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0146'>146</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0665'>665</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0831'>831</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0053'>53</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0188'>188</a>.</p>