# ยง 58.1-4124 Tax rate on adjusted gross receipts.

<p>A. A tax on the adjusted gross receipts of each licensed operator received from games authorized under this chapter shall be imposed as follows:</p><p>1. On the first $200 million of adjusted gross receipts of an operator each calendar year, a rate of 18 percent.</p><p>2. On the adjusted gross receipts of an operator that exceed $200 million but do not exceed $400 million each calendar year, a rate of 23 percent.</p><p>3. On the adjusted gross receipts of an operator that exceed $400 million each calendar year, a rate of 30 percent.</p><p>B. All tax revenues collected pursuant to the provisions of this section shall accrue to the Gaming Proceeds Fund and be allocated as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-4125/'>58.1-4125</a>.</p><p>C. The taxes imposed by this section shall be paid by the licensed operator to the Department no later than the close of the fifth day of each month for the preceding month when the adjusted gross receipts were received and shall be accompanied by forms and returns prescribed by the Board. Revenues collected pursuant to this section shall be credited to the Gaming Proceeds Fund to be appropriated as set forth in ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-4125/'>58.1-4125</a>. The Department may suspend or revoke the license of an operator for willful failure to submit the wagering tax payment or the return within the specified time.</p><p>D. The tax imposed under this section shall not apply to the receipts of a licensed operator from sports betting, whether such receipts were generated from a sports betting facility or sports betting platform; instead, such receipts shall be taxable under ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-4037/'>58.1-4037</a>.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1197'>1197</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1248'>1248</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0007'>7</a>.</p>