# § 45.2-807  Power circuits.

<p>A. All underground power wires and cables shall (i) have adequate current-carrying capacity, (ii) be guarded from mechanical injury, and (iii) be installed in a permanent manner.</p><p>B. Wires and cables that are not encased in armor shall be supported by well-installed insulators and shall not touch any roof, rib, or combustible material; however, this prohibition shall not apply to ground wires, grounded power conductors, or trailing cables.</p><p>C. Power wires or cables that are installed in a belt-haulage slope shall be insulated adequately and buried in a trench at least one foot below any combustible material, unless such wires or cables are encased in armor or otherwise fully protected against mechanical injury.</p><p>D. Any splice or repair in a power cable shall:</p><p>1. Be mechanically strong and have adequate electrical conductivity;</p><p>2. Be effectively insulated and sealed so as to exclude moisture;</p><p>3. If the cable has metallic armor, possess mechanical protection and electrical conductivity equivalent to that of the original armor; and</p><p>4. If the cable has metallic shielding around each conductor, possess new shielding that is equivalent to the original shielding.</p><p>E. Every underground high-voltage transmission cable shall be:</p><p>1. Installed only in a regularly inspected airway;</p><p>2. Covered, buried, or placed on insulators so as to afford protection against damage by derailed equipment if it is installed along a haulage road;</p><p>3. Guarded if miners regularly work or pass under such cable, unless it is at least 6.5 feet above the floor or rail;</p><p>4. Securely anchored, properly insulated, and guarded at its ends; and</p><p>5. Covered, insulated, or placed to prevent contact with any trolley circuit or other low-voltage circuit.</p><p>F. Any new high-voltage disconnect that is installed on underground electrical equipment shall automatically ground all three power leads when in the open position. Every high-voltage disconnect that is rebuilt or remanufactured after July 1, 2011, shall meet this standard.</p><p>G. Every power wire or cable shall be insulated adequately where it passes into or out of an electrical compartment and where it passes through a door or stopping.</p><p>H. Where track is used as a power conductor:</p><p>1. Both rails of main-line tracks shall be welded or bonded at every joint, and cross bonds shall be installed at intervals of not more than 200 feet. If the rails are paralleled with a feeder circuit of like polarity, such paralleled feeder shall be bonded to the track rails at intervals of not more than 1,000 feet;</p><p>2. At least one rail on any secondary track-haulage road shall be welded or bonded at every joint, and cross bonds shall be installed at intervals of not more than 200 feet; and</p><p>3. Track switches on entries shall be well bonded.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 45-82, 45-82.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, § 45.1-78; 1993, c. 442; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, § 45.1-161.186; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256'>256</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0826'>826</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0862'>862</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>