# ยง 10.1-2404.2 Operations of fund; termination.

<p>A. The Trust Fund shall consist of the property received pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-2404.1/'>10.1-2404.1</a> and any gifts, grants, or appropriations made to the Trust Fund. Gifts and bequests of money, securities, and other property to the Trust Fund, and the income therefrom, shall be deemed to be gifts to the Commonwealth and therefore exempt from all state and local taxes. Any income earned from gifts, bequests, rent, securities, and other property of the Trust Fund shall be the property of the Trust Fund. Any gifts received by the Virginia Historic Preservation Foundation while the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities is administering the Trust Fund, as well as any income which may accrue thereon, shall be deposited in the Trust Fund within ninety days of receipt.</p><p>B. By November 1 of each year, the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities shall submit a copy of its audited financial statement to the Director of the Department of Historic Resources and to the Attorney General.</p><p>C. Prior to January 1, 2003, the Board of Trustees of the Virginia Historic Preservation Foundation is authorized to review the operation of the Trust Fund. If it finds that such operation is not fulfilling the requirements of the trust agreement, it may recommend to the Governor that the trust agreement with the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities be terminated. If the Governor finds that such termination is in the best interest of the Commonwealth, he may direct the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities to reconvey all the assets of the Trust Fund to the Virginia Historic Preservation Foundation.</p><p>D. On and after January 1, 2003, if the Fund has not been reconveyed to the Virginia Historic Preservation Foundation, (i) the Foundation shall cease to exist and its minutes and any remaining assets shall become the property of the Department of Historic Resources and (ii) the Attorney General shall have the authority to take legal action on behalf of the Commonwealth to enforce the terms of the trust agreement established under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-2404.1/'>10.1-2404.1</a>.</p><p>1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0558'>558</a>.</p>