# § 13.1-816 Fees for filing documents or issuing certificates.

<p>The Commission shall charge and collect the following fees, except as provided in § <a href='/vacode/12.1-21.2/'>12.1-21.2</a>:</p><p>1. For the filing of articles of entity conversion to convert a corporation to a limited liability company, the fee shall be $100.</p><p>2. For filing any one of the following, the fee shall be $25:</p><p>a. Articles of incorporation, domestication, or incorporation surrender.</p><p>b. Articles of amendment or restatement.</p><p>c. Articles of merger.</p><p>d. Articles of correction.</p><p>e. An application of a foreign corporation for a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>f. An application of a foreign corporation for an amended certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>g. A copy of an amendment to the articles of incorporation of a foreign corporation holding a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>h. A copy of articles of merger of a foreign corporation holding a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>i. A copy of an instrument of entity conversion of a foreign corporation holding a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>j. An application to register or to renew the registration of a corporate name.</p><p>3. For filing any one of the following, the fee shall be $10:</p><p>a. An application to reserve or to renew the reservation of a corporate name.</p><p>b. A notice of transfer of a reserved corporate name.</p><p>c. An application for use of an indistinguishable name.</p><p>d. Articles of dissolution.</p><p>e. Articles of revocation of dissolution.</p><p>f. Articles of termination of corporate existence.</p><p>g. An application for withdrawal of a foreign corporation.</p><p>h. A notice of release of a registered name.</p><p>4. For issuing a certificate pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-945/'>13.1-945</a>, the fee shall be $6.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 13.1-285, 13.1-286.1; 1956, c. 428; 1958, c. 564; 1964, c. 551; 1972, c. 579; 1975, c. 500; 1981, c. 522; 1982, c. 460; 1984, c. 294; 1985, c. 522; 1987, c. 183; 1988, c. 405; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0368'>368</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0374'>374</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0274'>274</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0771'>771</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0130'>130</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>