# ยง 38.2-1034 How domestic mutual insurers may acquire initial surplus.

<p>Any domestic mutual insurer or mutual assessment property and casualty insurer may, without pledging any of its assets, provide a guaranty fund sufficient to defray the expenses of its organization and its initial minimum surplus required to obtain a license to do the business of insurance. The fund may be increased with the prior approval of the Commission by receiving advances or by borrowing funds upon an agreement that the funds, including interest at a rate not exceeding the one-year treasury bill interest rate plus three percentage points at the time the loan is made or renewed, shall be repaid only if the insurer has sufficient earned surplus. The agreement shall provide that the insurer may repay the advances or loans or any part of them whenever it is able to do so in accordance with the requirements of this article. No commission or brokerage shall be paid in acquiring the funds. No repayments of principal, either in whole or in part, and no payments of interest, shall be made without the prior written approval of the Commission. Neither the principal advanced or borrowed nor any interest accrued thereon under this provision shall form a part of the legal liabilities of the insurer until the Commission approves the repayment of such principal or the payment of interest thereon. However, all statements published or filed by the insurer shall show accrued interest and the amount of principal remaining unpaid. All claims under the instrument shall be subordinated to policyholder, claimant and beneficiary claims as well as debts owed to all other classes of creditors.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 38-512; 1952, c. 317, ยง 38.1-92; 1960, c. 291, ยง 38.1-92.1; 1970, c. 595; 1980, c. 187; 1986, c. 562; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>.</p>