# ยง 38.2-6606 State Innovation Waiver request.

<p>A. The Commission shall apply to the appropriate federal agencies under 42 U.S.C. ยง 18052 for a State Innovation Waiver for benefit years beginning January 1, 2023, and future years, (i) to establish a reinsurance program, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; (ii) to maximize federal pass-through funding for the reinsurance program; (iii) to be able to use remaining funds for other uses as recommended by a work group established by the Secretary of Health and Human Resources; and (iv) to waive any applicable provisions of the Affordable Care Act. An application for a State Innovation Waiver or for federal funds shall clearly state that operation of the Program is contingent on approval of the waiver or funding request. The Commission shall include in the application a request for pass-through of federal funding in accordance with ยง 1332(a)(3) of 42 U.S.C ยง 18052 to allow the Commonwealth to obtain and use, for purposes of helping finance the Program, any federal funds that would, absent the waiver, be used to pay advance payment tax credits and cost-sharing reductions authorized under the federal act. The Commission is authorized to apply for, accept, administer, and expend gifts, grants, and donations, and any federal funds that become available for the implementation of the Program, including the use of amounts necessary to develop and submit the State Innovation Waiver and request for federal funding.</p><p>B. The Commission shall submit the waiver application to the appropriate federal agencies by January 1, 2022. The Commission shall make a draft application available for public review and comment by October 1, 2021. The Commission may amend the waiver application as necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. The Commission shall promptly notify the Chairmen of the House Committees on Labor and Commerce and Appropriations and the Senate Committees on Commerce and Labor and Finance and Appropriations of any federal actions regarding the waiver request and of any amendment to the waiver application.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0480'>480</a>.</p>