# ยง 15.2-7408 Rules, regulations, and minimum standards.

<p>The Authority shall have the power to adopt, amend, and repeal rules, regulations, and minimum standards for the use, maintenance, and operation of its facilities and governing the conduct of persons and organizations using its facilities.</p><p>Unless the Authority shall by unanimous vote of the board of directors determine that an emergency exists, the Authority shall, prior to the adoption of any rule or regulation or alteration, amendment, or modification thereof:</p><p>1. Make such rule, regulation, alteration, amendment, or modification in convenient form available for public inspection in the office of the Authority for at least 10 days; and</p><p>2. Post in a public place a notice declaring the board of directors' intention to consider adopting such rule, regulation, alteration, amendment, or modification and informing the public that the Authority will at a public meeting consider the adoption of such rule or regulation or such alteration, amendment, or modification, on a day and at a time to be specified in the notice, after the expiration of at least 10 days from the first day of the posting of the notice thereof. The Authority's rules and regulations shall be available for public inspection in the Authority's principal office.</p><p>The Authority's rules and regulations relating to (i) traffic, including but not limited to motor vehicle speed limits and the location of and charges for public parking; (ii) access to Authority facilities, including but not limited to solicitation, handbilling, and picketing; and (iii) site management and maintenance shall have the force of law, as shall any other rule or regulation of the Authority, which shall contain a determination by the Authority that it is necessary to accord the same force and effect of law in the interest of the public safety. However, with respect to motor vehicle traffic rules and regulations, the Authority shall obtain the approval of the appropriate official of the political subdivision in which such rules or regulations are to be enforced. The violation of any rule or regulation of the Authority relating to motor vehicle traffic shall be tried and punished in the same manner as if it had been committed on the public roads of the participating political subdivision in which such violation occurred. All other violations of the rules and regulations having the force of law shall be punishable as misdemeanors.</p><p>2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0471'>471</a>.</p>