# ยง 22.1-346 Transfer of property; rights and duties of the Board of Visitors of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind; supervision of school; appointment and removal of officers and faculty; certain funding initiatives.

<p>A. All of the real estate and personal property now existing at the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind at Staunton and standing in the name of the Board of Education shall be transferred to and be under the control of the Board of Visitors of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind. The Department of General Services shall cooperate with the Board in supervising the maintenance and repair of the real and personal property of the school.</p><p>B. Any gift, grant, devise or bequest made prior to July 1, 1984, to the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind at Staunton shall be held by the Board of Visitors of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind for the school. The Board shall have the power to take, hold, receive and enjoy any gift, grant, devise or bequest made hereafter to the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind. Such gift, grant, devise or bequest shall be held for uses and purposes designated by the donor or if not designated for a specific purpose, for the general purposes of any programs of the school. The Board shall provide fiduciary administration of such funds, including investments, disbursements, accounting, and financial reporting. The Board shall also accept, execute and administer any trust in which it may have an interest under the terms of the instrument creating the trust.</p><p>C. The Board of Visitors of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind shall be charged with the operational control of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind at Staunton. In exercising this operational control, the Board shall include, in any budget recommendations to the Governor for state funding for the several school divisions which may be related to educational technology or other programs appropriate for implementation within the school, state funding for such programs to be provided to the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind. However, the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind shall not be defined as a school division for constitutional purposes. Supervision of the contracts and agreements of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind are hereby transferred to the Board of Visitors of the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind.</p><p>The Board shall provide rules and regulations for the governance of the school. The Board shall administer, supervise and direct the activities and programs of the school pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Board. The Board shall appoint the officers and employees of the school subject to the provisions of Chapter 29 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2900/'>2.2-2900</a> et seq.) of Title 2.2.</p><p>1984, c. 413; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0066'>66</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0285'>285</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0210'>210</a>.</p>