# ยง 54.1-3319 Counseling.

<p>A. A pharmacist shall conduct a prospective drug review before each new prescription is dispensed or delivered to a patient or a person acting on behalf of the patient. Such review shall include screening for potential drug therapy problems due to therapeutic duplication, drug-disease contraindications, drug-drug interactions, including serious interactions with nonprescription or over-the-counter drugs, incorrect drug dosage or duration of drug treatment, drug-allergy interactions, and clinical abuse or misuse. A pharmacist may conduct a prospective drug review before refilling a prescription to the extent the pharmacist deems appropriate in his professional judgment.</p><p>B. A pharmacist shall offer to counsel any person who presents a new prescription for filling. The offer to counsel may be made in any manner the pharmacist deems appropriate in his professional judgment, and may include any one or a combination of the following:</p><p>1. Face-to-face communication with the pharmacist or the pharmacist's designee;</p><p>2. A sign posted in such a manner that it can be seen by patients;</p><p>3. A notation affixed to or written on the bag in which the prescription is to be delivered;</p><p>4. A notation contained on the prescription container; or</p><p>5. By telephone.</p><p>For the purposes of medical assistance and other third-party reimbursement or payment programs, any of the above methods, or a combination thereof, shall constitute an acceptable offer to provide counseling, except to the extent this subsection is inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the federal Health Care Financing Administration governing 42 U.S.C. ยง 1396r-8 (g)(2)(A)(ii). A pharmacist may offer to counsel any person who receives a refill of a prescription to the extent deemed appropriate by the pharmacist in his professional judgment.</p><p>C. If the offer to counsel is accepted, the pharmacist shall counsel the person presenting the prescription to the extent the pharmacist deems appropriate in his professional judgment. Such counseling shall be performed by the pharmacist himself and may, but need not, include the following:</p><p>1. The name and description of the medication;</p><p>2. The dosage form, dosage, route of administration, and duration of drug therapy;</p><p>3. Special directions and precautions for preparation, administration, and use by the patient;</p><p>4. Common adverse or severe side effects or interactions and therapeutic contraindications that may be encountered, including their avoidance, and the action required if they occur;</p><p>5. Techniques for self-monitoring drug therapy;</p><p>6. Proper storage and disposal;</p><p>7. Prescription refill information; and</p><p>8. Action to be taken in the event of a missed dose.</p><p>Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring a pharmacist to provide counseling when the person presenting the prescription fails to accept the pharmacist's offer to counsel. If the prescription is delivered to a person residing outside of the local telephone calling area of the pharmacy, the pharmacist shall either provide a toll-free telephone number or accept reasonable collect calls from such person.</p><p>D. Reasonable efforts shall be made to obtain, record, and maintain the following patient information generated at the individual pharmacy:</p><p>1. Name, address, telephone number, date of birth or age, and gender;</p><p>2. Individual history where significant, including known allergies and drug reactions, and a comprehensive list of medications and relevant devices; and</p><p>3. Any additional comments relevant to the patient's drug use, including any failure to accept the pharmacist's offer to counsel.</p><p>Such information may be recorded in the patient's manual or electronic profile, or in the prescription signature log, or in any other system of records and may be considered by the pharmacist in the exercise of his professional judgment concerning both the offer to counsel and content of counseling. The absence of any record of a failure to accept the pharmacist's offer to counsel shall be presumed to signify that such offer was accepted and that such counseling was provided.</p><p>E. This section shall not apply to any drug dispensed to an inpatient of a hospital or nursing home, except to the extent required by regulations promulgated by the federal Health Care Financing Administration implementing 42 U.S.C. ยง 1396r-8 (g)(2)(A).</p><p>1992, c. 689; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0096'>96</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0135'>135</a>.</p>