# § 3.2-4015 Prohibitions.

<p>It is unlawful to:</p><p>1. Transport, offer for transportation, sell, or offer for sale seed or seed mixtures:</p><p>a. Unless the germination test to determine the percentage of germination required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4008/'>3.2-4008</a> is completed within nine months prior to the month of transportation, sale, or offer for sale, except for the germination test for cool-season lawn and turf seeds or mixtures thereof, which must be completed within 15 months prior to the month of transportation, sale, or offer for sale;</p><p>b. Not labeled in compliance with this article, not registered or falsely stated to be registered under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4009/'>3.2-4009</a>, or having a false or misleading labeling or claim;</p><p>c. If there has been a false or misleading advertisement with regards to the seed;</p><p>d. Consisting of, or containing prohibited noxious-weed seeds in any amount;</p><p>e. Containing restricted noxious-weed seeds, except as prescribed by regulations;</p><p>f. Containing weed seeds in excess of one percent by weight, except as prescribed by regulations;</p><p>g. That have been treated and not labeled as required;</p><p>h. To which there is affixed names or terms that create a misleading impression as to the kind, kind and variety, history, productivity, quality, or origin of the seed;</p><p>i. Represented to be certified, registered, or foundation seed unless it has been produced, processed and labeled in accordance with the procedures and in compliance with regulations of an officially recognized certifying agency;</p><p>j. Represented to be a hybrid unless such seed conforms to the definition of a hybrid as defined in this article except those kinds named in regulations adopted by the Board as having agronomic value and flower seed generally defined as hybrids prior to the enactment of subsections G and H of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4008/'>3.2-4008</a> on July 1, 1966 as determined by regulations adopted by the Board;</p><p>k. Hybrid seed from a crop that has been inspected in the field by a duly authorized inspector and rejected because of failure to conform to the controlled conditions as specified by regulations;</p><p>l. Unless it conforms to the definition of a "lot"; and</p><p>m. Unless the variety or hybrid name or designation is the first variety or hybrid name or designation assigned to it by the owner of the variety or hybrid;</p><p>2. Transport, offer for transportation, sell, or offer for sale screenings unless labeled as provided in subsection F of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4008/'>3.2-4008</a>.</p><p>3. Detach, alter, deface, or destroy any label required pursuant to this article or alter or substitute seed in any manner that may defeat the purpose of this article.</p><p>4. Disseminate false or misleading advertisement concerning agricultural, vegetable, flower, tree and shrub, lawn and turf seeds, or screenings.</p><p>5. Hinder or obstruct the Commissioner in the performance of his duties.</p><p>6. Fail to comply with or supply inaccurate information in reply to a stop sale order; remove labels attached to or dispose of seed or screenings held under such order except as specified by the Commissioner.</p><p>7. Use the name of the Department or the results of tests and inspections made by the Department for advertising purposes.</p><p>8. Use the words "type" or "trace" in lieu of information required by this article.</p><p>9. Label and offer for sale seed without keeping complete records as specified in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4006/'>3.2-4006</a>.</p><p>10. Fail to obtain a license in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4005/'>3.2-4005</a>.</p><p>11. Fail to register a lawn and turf seed mixture in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4009/'>3.2-4009</a>.</p><p>12. Fail to pay inspection fees in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4010/'>3.2-4010</a>.</p><p>13. Sell, offer for sale, or advertise as noncertified a variety if a certificate of plant variety protection has been issued under the Plant Variety Protection Act specifying sale only as a class of certified seed. The guarantor may label seed from a certified lot by variety name when the guarantor uses the seed in a mixture if the guarantor is the owner of the variety or the owner of the variety gives the guarantor approval to use the variety name.</p><p>Code 1950, § 3-219.4; 1958, c. 483; 1966, cc. 9, 702, § 3.1-265; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0577'>577</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0297'>297</a>.</p>