# § 58.1-1738 Administration of the tax.

<p>A. The tax on the rental of a motor vehicle pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-1736/'>58.1-1736</a> shall be paid by the person renting such motor vehicle, collected by the rentor of such motor vehicle, and remitted to the Tax Commissioner on or before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the gross proceeds from such rental were due. All of the responsibilities imposed on dealers in Chapter 6 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-600/'>58.1-600</a> et seq.) shall apply to rentors for purposes of this article, except the provision in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-615/'>58.1-615</a> requiring a sales or use tax return to be filed when the dealer is not liable to remit to the Tax Commissioner any tax for the period covered by the return. The tax on rental transactions in the Commonwealth shall apply regardless of the state for which a certificate of title is required.</p><p>B. The tax on the sharing of a motor vehicle pursuant to subsection D of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-1736/'>58.1-1736</a> shall be paid by the shared vehicle driver. The tax shall be collectible from the peer-to-peer vehicle sharing platforms that have established sufficient contact with the Commonwealth by meeting at least one requirement in each of subdivisions C 1, 2, and 3 of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-612.1/'>58.1-612.1</a>, mutatis mutandis. Shared vehicle owners are not eligible to collect taxes on shared vehicle transactions where such taxes are collectible by a peer-to-peer vehicle sharing platform. The tax shall be remitted to the Tax Commissioner on or before the twentieth day of the month following the month in which the gross proceeds from such sharing were due. The tax on peer-to-peer vehicle sharing in the Commonwealth shall apply regardless of the state for which a certificate of title for a shared vehicle is required.</p><p>C. The provisions of Chapter 6 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-600/'>58.1-600</a> et seq.) shall apply to this article, mutatis mutandis, except as herein provided.</p><p>2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0639'>639</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0053'>53</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1266'>1266</a>.</p>