# ยง 6.2-1098 Revocation of trust powers.

<p>A. If, in the opinion of the Commission, an association is unlawfully or unsoundly exercising, or has unlawfully or unsoundly exercised, or has failed for a period of five consecutive years to exercise, the powers granted by this chapter, or otherwise fails or has failed to comply with the requirements of this chapter, the Commission may issue and serve upon the association a notice of intent to revoke the authority of the association to exercise the powers granted by this chapter. The notice shall contain a statement of the facts constituting the alleged unlawful or unsound exercise of powers, or failure to exercise powers, or failure to comply, and shall fix a time and place at which a hearing will be held before the Commission to determine whether an order revoking authority to exercise such powers should issue against the association.</p><p>B. Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the Commission's Rules, and shall be fixed for a date not earlier than 30 days and not later than 60 days after the service of such notice, unless an earlier or later date is set by the Commission at the request of the association so served.</p><p>C. Unless the association so served shall appear by a duly authorized representative, it shall be deemed to have consented to the issuance of the revocation order. In the event of such consent or if, upon the record made at any such hearing, the Commission shall find that any allegation specified in the notice of charges has been established, the Commission shall issue and serve upon the association an order prohibiting it from accepting any new or additional trust accounts and revoking authority to exercise any and all powers granted by this chapter, except that such order shall permit the association to continue to service all previously accepted trust accounts pending their expeditious divestiture or termination.</p><p>D. A revocation order shall become effective not later than the expiration of 30 days after service of such order upon the association and shall remain effective and enforceable, except to such extent as it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by action of the Commission or a reviewing court. In the case of a revocation order issued upon the consent of an association, such order shall become effective at the time specified therein.</p><p>1984, c. 303, ยง 6.1-195.95; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>