# § 54.1-4001 License required; license authorized by court; building designated in license; penalty.

<p>A. No natural person shall engage in the business of a pawnbroker without having a valid license issued by the county, city, or town in which the pawnbroker conducts such business.</p><p>B. The circuit court of any county or city may authorize any county, city, or town to issue to any natural person, who has not been convicted of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude in the last ten years, a license to engage in the business of a pawnbroker in that county, city, or town. No such license shall be issued by any county, city, or town except with such authority. Prior to the issuance of the license, the applicant shall furnish his date of birth, a sworn statement or affirmation disclosing any criminal convictions or any pending criminal charges, whether within or without the Commonwealth, and such other information to the licensing authority as may be required by the governing body. The license shall designate the building in which the licensee shall carry on such business.</p><p>C. No natural person shall engage in the business of a pawnbroker in any location other than the one designated in his license, except with consent of the court which authorized the license.</p><p>D. Any natural person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 54-841, 54-842; 1982, c. 633; 1986, c. 316; 1988, c. 765; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0848'>848</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0238'>238</a>.</p>