# ยง 23.1-2626  Powers and duties of the Center.

<p>The Center, under the direction of the executive director, shall:</p><p>1. Develop a degree program in energy production and conservation research at the master's level in conjunction with the Council;</p><p>2. Develop and provide programs of continuing education and in-service training for persons who work in the fields of coal or other energy research, development, or production;</p><p>3. Collaborate with other departments of the University, including the Department of Mining and Minerals Engineering;</p><p>4. Conduct research in the fields of coal, coal utilization, migrating natural gases such as methane and propane, and other energy-related work;</p><p>5. Collect and maintain data on energy production, development, and utilization;</p><p>6. Foster the utilization of research information, discoveries, and data;</p><p>7. Coordinate the functions of the Center with each of the Center's energy research facilities to prevent duplication of effort;</p><p>8. Apply for and accept grants from the federal government, state government, and any other source to carry out the purposes of this article. The Center may comply with such conditions and execute such agreements as may be necessary to accept such grants;</p><p>9. Accept gifts, bequests, and any other thing of value to carry out the purposes of this article;</p><p>10. Receive, administer, and expend all funds and other assistance made available to the Center to carry out the purposes of this article;</p><p>11. Consult with the Division of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency of the Department of Energy in the preparation of the Virginia Energy Plan pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-1710/'>45.2-1710</a>; and</p><p>12. Do all things necessary or convenient for the proper administration of this article.</p><p>1977, c. 543, ยง 23-135.7:6; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0939'>939</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0532'>532</a>.</p>