# § 22.1-178 Requirements for persons employed to drive school buses.

<p>A. No school board shall hire, employ, or enter into any agreement with any person for the purposes of operating a school bus transporting pupils unless the person proposed to so operate such school bus shall:</p><p>1. Have a physical examination of a scope prescribed by the Board with the advice of the Medical Society of Virginia and furnish a form prescribed by the Board showing the results of such examination.</p><p>2. Furnish a statement or copy of records from the Department of Motor Vehicles showing that the records of such Department do not disclose that the person, within the preceding five years, has been convicted upon a charge of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, convicted of a felony or assigned to any alcohol safety action program or driver alcohol rehabilitation program pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/18.2-271.1/'>18.2-271.1</a> or, within the preceding 12 months, has been convicted of two or more moving traffic violations or required to attend a driver improvement clinic by the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/46.2-498/'>46.2-498</a>.</p><p>3. Furnish a statement signed by two reputable persons who reside in the school division or in the applicant's community that the person is of good moral character.</p><p>4. Exhibit a license showing the person has successfully undertaken the examination prescribed by § <a href='/vacode/46.2-339/'>46.2-339</a>.</p><p>5. Have reached the age of 18 by the first day of the school year.</p><p>B. Any school board may require proof of current certification or training in emergency first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and the use of an automated external defibrillator as a condition to employment to operate a school bus transporting pupils.</p><p>C. School boards may require persons accepting employment as a driver of a school bus transporting pupils to agree, as a condition of employment, to submit to alcohol and controlled substance testing. Any such tests shall be conducted in compliance with Board regulations.</p><p>D. The documents required pursuant to subdivisions A 1 and 2 shall be furnished annually prior to the anniversary date of the employment agreement as a condition to continuing employment to operate a school bus.</p><p>E. The documents required pursuant to this section shall be filed with, and made a part of, the records of the school board employing such person as a school bus operator.</p><p>F. The Department shall furnish to the several division superintendents the necessary forms to be used by applicants in furnishing the information required by this section. Insofar as practicable, such forms shall be designed to limit paperwork, avoid the possibility of mistake, and furnish all parties involved with a complete and accurate record of the information required.</p><p>G. The physical examination required by subsection A may be performed and the report of the results signed by a licensed nurse practitioner or physician assistant.</p><p>Code 1950, § 22-276.1; 1962, c. 544; 1966, c. 604; 1970, c. 696; 1972, c. 359; 1973, c. 170; 1976, cc. 116, 123; 1977, c. 393; 1978, c. 322; 1979, c. 126; 1980, c. 559; 1992, c. 130; 1993, c. 285; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0104'>104</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0287'>287</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0445'>445</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0396'>396</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0498'>498</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0530'>530</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>.</p>