# § 45.2-523  Coal Mining Examiners' Fund.

<p>There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Coal Mining Examiners' Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All fees collected pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/45.2-524/'>45.2-524</a>, together with moneys collected pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/45.2-525/'>45.2-525</a> and <a href='/vacode/45.2-526/'>45.2-526</a>, shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of covering the costs of administering the miner certification, the cost of printing certificates and other necessary forms, and the incidental expenses incurred by the Board in conducting examinations, reviewing examination papers, and conducting its other duties pursuant to this article. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Chief. The Chief shall keep accounts and records concerning the receipts and expenditures of the Fund as required by the Auditor of Public Accounts.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 45-24, 45-25; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, §§ 45.1-8, 45.1-9; 1972, c. 440; 1978, c. 120; 1984, c. 590; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, § 45.1-161.31; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0894'>894</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0914'>914</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>