# ยง 63.2-1804 Uniform assessment instrument.

<p>A uniform assessment instrument setting forth a resident's care needs shall be completed for all residents upon admission and at subsequent intervals as determined by regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services. No uniform assessment instrument shall be required to be completed upon admission if a uniform assessment instrument was completed by a case manager or other qualified assessor within ninety days prior to such admission to the assisted living facility unless there has been a change in the resident's condition within that time which would affect the admission. Uniform assessment instruments shall not be required to be completed more often than once every twelve months on individuals residing in assisted living facilities except that uniform assessment instruments shall be completed whenever there is a change in the resident's condition that appears to warrant a change in the resident's approved level of care. At the request of the assisted living facility, the resident's representative, the resident's physician, the Department or the local department, an independent assessment, using the uniform assessment instrument shall be completed to determine whether the resident's care needs are being met in the current placement. The resident's case manager or other qualified assessor shall complete the uniform assessment instrument for public pay residents or, upon request by the private pay resident, for private pay residents. Unless a private pay resident requests the uniform assessment instrument be completed by a case manager or other qualified assessor, qualified staff of the assisted living facility or an independent private physician may complete the uniform assessment instrument for private pay residents; however, for private pay residents, social and financial information which is not relevant because of the resident's payment status shall not be required. The cost of administering the uniform assessment instrument pursuant to this section shall be borne by the entity designated pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Commissioner of the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services. Upon receiving the uniform assessment instrument prior to admission of a resident, the assisted living facility administrator shall provide written assurance that the facility has the appropriate license to meet the care needs of the resident at the time of admission.</p><p>1993, cc. 957, 993, ยง 63.1-173.3; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0649'>649</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0284'>284</a>.</p>