# ยง 59.1-310.4 Warning signs.

<p>A. A tanning facility shall post a warning sign in a conspicuous location where it is readily readable by persons entering the establishment. The sign shall contain the following warning:</p><p>DANGER: ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION</p><p>Repeated exposure to ultraviolet radiation may cause chronic sun damage <br/> to the skin characterized by wrinkling, dryness, fragility, and bruising of <br/> the skin, and skin cancer.<br/> Failure to use protective eyewear may result in severe burns or <br/> permanent injury to the eyes.<br/> Medications or cosmetics may increase your sensitivity to ultraviolet <br/> radiation. Consult a physician or nurse practitioner before using a sunlamp <br/> if you are using medications, have a history of skin problems, or believe <br/> you are especially sensitive to sunlight. Pregnant women or women taking <br/> oral contraceptives who use this product may develop discolored skin.</p><p>IF YOU DO NOT TAN IN THE SUN, YOU WILL NOT TAN FROM USE OF AN ULTRAVIOLET SUNLAMP.</p><p>B. A tanning facility shall post a warning sign, one sign for each tanning <br/>device, in a conspicuous location that is readily readable to a person about <br/>to use the device. The sign shall contain the following:</p><p>DANGER: ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION</p><p>1. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for use of this device.</p><p>2. Avoid too frequent or lengthy exposure. As with natural sunlight, <br/> exposure can cause serious eye and skin injuries and allergic reactions. <br/> Repeated exposure may cause skin cancer.</p><p>3. Wear protective eyewear. Failure to use protective eyewear may result <br/> in severe burns or permanent damage to the eyes.</p><p>4. Do not sunbathe before or after exposure to ultraviolet radiation <br/> from sunlamps.</p><p>5. Medications or cosmetics may increase your sensitivity to ultraviolet <br/> radiation. Consult a physician or nurse practitioner before using a sunlamp <br/> if you are using medication, have a history of skin problems, or believe <br/> you are especially sensitive to sunlight. Pregnant women or women using <br/> oral contraceptives who use this product may develop discolored skin.</p><p>IF YOU DO NOT TAN IN THE SUN, YOU WILL NOT TAN FROM USE OF THIS DEVICE.</p><p>1990, c. 776; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0855'>855</a>.</p>