# ยง 30-403 (For contingent expiration date, see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. 313, cl. 2) Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman and vice-chairman; quorum; meetings; voting on recommendations.

<p>The Commission shall consist of 12 legislative members, who shall be appointed as follows: five members of the Senate, at least one of whom shall be a member of the Senate Committee on Education and Health, at least one of whom shall be a member of the Senate Committee on Rehabilitation and Social Services, and at least two of whom shall be members of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, to be appointed by the Committee on Rules and seven members of the House of Delegates, at least two of whom shall be members of the House Committee on Appropriations and at least two of whom shall be members of the House Committee on Health, Welfare and Institutions, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates.</p><p>Members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Members may be reappointed. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired term. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.</p><p>The Commission shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its membership.</p><p>A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members of the Commission so request.</p><p>No recommendation of the Commission shall be adopted if a majority of the Senate members or a majority of the House members appointed to the Commission (i) vote against the recommendation and (ii) vote for the recommendation to fail notwithstanding the majority vote of the Commission.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0313'>313</a>.</p>