# ยง 54.1-3488 Compact privilege.

<p>A. To exercise the compact privilege under the terms and provisions of the Compact, the licensee shall:</p><p>1. Hold a license in the home state;</p><p>2. Have no encumbrance on any state license;</p><p>3. Be eligible for a compact privilege in any member state in accordance with subsections D, G, and H;</p><p>4. Have not had any adverse action against any license or compact privilege within the previous two years;</p><p>5. Notify the Commission that the licensee is seeking the compact privilege within a remote state or remote states;</p><p>6. Pay any applicable fees, including any state fee, for the compact privilege;</p><p>7. Meet any jurisprudence requirements established by the remote state or states in which the licensee is seeking a compact privilege; and</p><p>8. Report to the Commission adverse action taken by any nonmember state within 30 days from the date the adverse action is taken.</p><p>B. The compact privilege is valid until the expiration date of the home license. The licensee must comply with the requirements of subsection A to maintain the compact privilege in the remote state.</p><p>C. A licensee providing physical therapy in a remote state under the compact privilege shall function within the laws and regulations of the remote state.</p><p>D. A licensee providing physical therapy in a remote state is subject to that state's regulatory authority. A remote state may, in accordance with due process and that state's laws, remove a licensee's compact privilege in the remote state for a specific period of time, impose fines, and/or take any other necessary actions to protect the health and safety of its citizens. The licensee is not eligible for a compact privilege in any state until the specific time for removal has passed and all fines are paid.</p><p>E. If a home state license is encumbered, the licensee shall lose the compact privilege in any remote state until the following occur:</p><p>1. The home state license is no longer encumbered; and</p><p>2. Two years have elapsed from the date of the adverse action.</p><p>F. Once an encumbered license in the home state is restored to good standing, the licensee must meet the requirements of subsection A to obtain a compact privilege in any remote state.</p><p>G. If a licensee's compact privilege in any remote state is removed, the individual shall lose the compact privilege in any remote state until the following occur:</p><p>1. The specific period of time for which the compact privilege was removed has ended;</p><p>2. All fines have been paid; and</p><p>3. Two years have elapsed from the date of the adverse action.</p><p>H. Once the requirements of subsection G have been met, the licensee must meet the requirements in subsection A to obtain a compact privilege in a remote state.</p><p>2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0300'>300</a>.</p>