# ยง 46.2-1573.4 Coercion of retail dealer by manufacturer or distributor with respect to retail installment sales contracts prohibited; penalty.

<p>A. It shall be unlawful for any manufacturer or distributor, or any officer, agent, or representative of either, to coerce or attempt to coerce any retail recreational vehicle dealer or prospective retail recreational vehicle dealer in the Commonwealth to sell, assign, or transfer any retail installment sales contract, obtained by the dealer in connection with the sale by him in the Commonwealth of recreational vehicles manufactured or sold by the manufacturer or distributor, to a specified finance company or class of finance companies or to any other specified persons by any of the following:</p><p>1. Any statement, suggestion, promise, or threat that the manufacturer or distributor will in any manner benefit or injure the dealer, whether the statement, suggestion, threat, or promise is expressed or implied or made directly or indirectly.</p><p>2. Any act that will benefit or injure the dealer.</p><p>3. Any contract, or any expressed or implied offer of contract, made directly or indirectly to the dealer, for handling the recreational vehicle on the condition that the dealer sell, assign, or transfer his retail installment sales contract on the recreational vehicle, in the Commonwealth, to a specified finance company or class of finance companies or to any other specified person.</p><p>4. Any expressed or implied statement or representation made directly or indirectly that the dealer is under any obligation whatsoever to sell, assign, or transfer any of his retail sales contracts in the Commonwealth on recreational vehicles manufactured or sold by the manufacturer or distributor to a finance company, class of finance companies, or other specified person, because of any relationship or affiliation between the manufacturer or distributor and the finance company or companies or the specified person.</p><p>B. Any such statements, threats, promises, acts, contracts, or offers of contracts, when their effect may be to lessen or eliminate competition or tend to create a monopoly, are declared unfair trade practices and unfair methods of competition and are prohibited.</p><p>C. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>, ยง 46.2-1975; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1043'>1043</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1052'>1052</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0615'>615</a>.</p>