# § 2.2-5400 Short title; definitions.

<p>A. This chapter shall be known as the Community Action Act.</p><p>B. As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Community action agency" means a local subdivision of the Commonwealth, a combination of political subdivisions, a separate public agency or a private nonprofit agency that has the authority under its applicable charter or laws to receive funds to support community action activities and other appropriate measures designed to identify and deal with the causes of poverty in the Commonwealth, and that is designated as a community action agency by federal law, federal regulations or the Governor.</p><p>"Community action program budget" means state funds, federal block grants and federal categorical grants that are received by the Commonwealth for community action activities.</p><p>"Community action statewide organization" means community action programs, organized on a statewide basis, to enhance the capability of community action agencies.</p><p>"Designated agency" means the agency designated by the Secretary of Health and Human Resources pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-5401/'>2.2-5401</a>.</p><p>"Local share" means cash or in-kind goods and services donated to community action agencies to carry out their responsibilities.</p><p>"Low-income person" means a person who is a member of a household with a gross annual income equal to or less than 125 percent of the poverty standard accepted by the federal agency designated to establish poverty guidelines.</p><p>"Service area" means the geographical area within the jurisdiction of a community action agency or a community action statewide organization.</p><p>1982, c. 667, §§ 2.1-587, 2.1-588; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>