# § 4.1-239 Monthly reports and payment of excise tax on beer and wine coolers; filing by nonresident manufacturer; commissions.

<p>A. On or before the tenth day of each month, each manufacturer, bottler, wholesaler or other person selling beer or wine coolers in the Commonwealth who is chargeable with the payment of excise taxes imposed by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-236/'>4.1-236</a> shall file a report under oath with the Board, on forms prescribed by the Board, showing the quantity of all beer and wine coolers manufactured, bottled or sold by such person during the preceding calendar months. Such report shall also contain any other information the Board may require. Common carriers of passengers by train or boat licensed to sell beer or wine coolers in dining cars, buffet cars, club cars or on such boats shall have thirty days from the end of each calendar month to file such reports. At the time of filing, such person shall pay the Board all excise taxes chargeable against him under the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-236/'>4.1-236</a>, unless the taxes have been previously paid.</p><p>B. In addition to the requirements of subsection A, on or before the fifteenth day of each month each nonresident manufacturer shall forward a copy of each invoice required by Board regulation or a listing of all such invoices for the preceding month to the Board as a condition of shipment into or doing business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. Any person filing the report required by this section and paying such excise tax required by subsection B of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-236/'>4.1-236</a> shall be allowed a commission of one percent of the amount of tax due as compensation for the expense of maintaining records and preparing reports so as to account for and remit the tax levied by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-236/'>4.1-236</a>. Such commission shall also be allowed as compensation for the expense, if any, of compliance with the requirements of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-238/'>4.1-238</a>. Such commission shall be accounted for in the form of a deduction from the amount of tax which would otherwise be due.</p><p>1988, c. 261, §§ 4-131, 4-132, 4-133; 1993, c. 866.</p>