# ยง 10.1-1300 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advisory Board" means the State Advisory Board on Air Pollution.</p><p>"Air pollution" means the presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more substances which are or may be harmful or injurious to human health, welfare or safety, to animal or plant life, or to property, or which unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment by the people of life or property.</p><p>"Board" means the State Air Pollution Control Board.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Environmental Quality.</p><p>"Director" or "Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Department of Environmental Quality.</p><p>"Owner" shall have no connotation other than that customarily assigned to the term "person," but shall include bodies politic and corporate, associations, partnerships, personal representatives, trustees and committees, as well as individuals.</p><p>"Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, a governmental body, a municipal corporation, or any other legal entity.</p><p>"Special order" means a special order issued under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1309/'>10.1-1309</a>.</p><p>"Wood heater" means a wood stove, pellet stove, wood-fired hydronic heater, wood-burning forced-air furnace, or masonry wood heater, any of which is solely designed for heating a home or a business and with either (i) uncontrolled fine particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers (PM2.5) emissions of less than 10 tons per year or with a maximum heat input of less than 1,000,000 Btu/hr or (ii) uncontrolled fine particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to 10 micrometers (PM10) emissions of less than 15 tons per year or with a maximum heat input of less than 1,000,000 Btu/hr.</p><p>1966, c. 497, ยง 10-17.10; 1968, c. 311; 1970, c. 469; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 91; 1972, c. 781; 1985, c. 448; 1988, c. 891; 1990, c. 238; 1991, c. 702; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0408'>408</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0471'>471</a>.</p>