# ยง 54.1-310 Powers and duties of Board.

<p>A. The Board shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. Provide a means of citizen access to the Department.</p><p>2. Provide a means of publicizing the policies and programs of the Department in order to educate the public and elicit public support for Department activities.</p><p>3. Monitor the policies and activities of the Department and have the right of access to departmental information.</p><p>4. Advise the Governor and the Director on matters relating to the regulation of professions and occupations.</p><p>5. Promulgate regulations in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.) necessary to carry out its responsibilities.</p><p>6. Evaluate constantly each profession and occupation in the Commonwealth not otherwise regulated for consideration as to whether such profession or occupation should be regulated and, if so, the degree of regulation that should be imposed. Whenever it determines that the public interest requires that a profession or occupation which is not regulated by law should be regulated, the Board shall recommend to the General Assembly next convened a regulatory system accompanied by comprehensive regulations necessary to conduct the degree of regulation required.</p><p>B. Upon the regulation of a profession or occupation as set forth in subsection A, the Board shall have the power and duty to promulgate supplemental regulations necessary to effectuate the purposes and intent of this chapter and to establish regulatory boards to administer the system of regulation and the regulations recommended by the Board and approved by the General Assembly.</p><p>1979, c. 408, ยง 54-1.25; 1984, cc. 720, 734; 1988, c. 765.</p>