# ยง 38.2-1016 Amendment of charter and bylaws; change of name; retirement and cancellation of stock; when mutualization effective; assets and liabilities; officers and directors; general restrictions and powers.

<p>A. Upon acquisition by the trustees of all of the capital stock of the insurer pursuant to the provisions of this article, the charter of the insurer shall be amended to reflect its mutualization. The charter may be amended in any other respect considered necessary by the board of directors and trustees of the insurer in accordance with the provisions of this article and Article 11 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-705/'>13.1-705</a> et seq.) of Chapter 9 of Title 13.1. Upon the amendment of the charter of the insurer, the board of directors named in the amendment shall adopt any changes in the bylaws considered necessary, and the bylaws and any amendments to them shall be filed with the Commission within thirty days after adoption.</p><p>B. As soon as the charter of the insurer has been amended as provided in this section, the capital stock of the insurer held by the trustees shall be assigned to the insurer and shall be retired and cancelled. Certification of that action by the proper officers of the insurer shall be made to the Commission, and the trustees acting under the plan shall be discharged. The insurer shall then immediately become a mutual insurer owning all the assets of the converted stock insurer and subject to all its liabilities.</p><p>C. The officers and directors of the insurer named in the amended charter shall continue as the officers and directors of the mutual insurer until their successors are duly elected in accordance with the provisions of the amended charter and the bylaws adopted under it.</p><p>D. The converted mutual insurer, except as otherwise provided in this title, shall be subject to all the general restrictions and have all the general powers imposed and conferred upon nonstock corporations by law.</p><p>1954, c. 20, ยง 38.1-495.5; 1956, c. 431; 1986, c. 562.</p>