# ยง 32.1-162.23 Commonwealth Health Research Board established.

<p>A. The Commonwealth Health Research Board (the Board) is established as an independent body. The purpose of the Board is to provide financial support from the Commonwealth Health Research Fund (the Fund), in the form of grants, donations, or other assistance, for research efforts that have the potential of maximizing human health benefits for the citizens of the Commonwealth. Research efforts eligible for support by the Board shall include traditional medical and biomedical research relating to health services, the delivery of health care, and the causes and cures of diseases.</p><p>B. The Board shall be composed of seven members, of whom three shall be appointed by the Governor and four shall be appointed by the Joint Rules Committee. All appointments to the Board are subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Appointments shall be for terms of five years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>No member shall serve more than two consecutive five-year terms; however, a member appointed to serve an unexpired term is eligible to serve two additional consecutive five-year terms immediately succeeding such unexpired term.</p><p>C. Members of the Board shall have substantial experience or expertise, personal or professional, in at least one of the following areas: medicine, medical or scientific research, public policy, government, business, or education. No member shall be an incumbent elected official, state official, state employee, or member of the governing board of a state agency or institution. Members of the Board need not be residents of the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. The Board shall elect annually a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. The chairman, or in his absence the vice-chairman, shall preside at all meetings of the Board.</p><p>E. A majority of the members of the Board serving at any one time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.</p><p>F. The Board shall meet annually or more frequently at the call of the chairman.</p><p>G. The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Such expenses shall be paid from the Fund.</p><p>1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0888'>888</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0891'>891</a>, ยง 23-278; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0675'>675</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0700'>700</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>