# § 4.1-1105.1 Possession of marijuana or marijuana products unlawful in certain cases; venue; exceptions; penalties; treatment and education programs and services.

<p>A. No person younger than 21 years of age shall consume or possess, or attempt to consume or possess, any marijuana or marijuana products, except by any federal, state, or local law-enforcement officer or his agent when possession of marijuana or marijuana products is necessary in the performance of his duties. Such person may be prosecuted either in the county or city in which the marijuana or marijuana products were possessed or consumed or in the county or city in which the person exhibits evidence of physical indicia of consumption of marijuana or marijuana products.</p><p>B. Any person 18 years of age or older who violates subsection A is subject to a civil penalty of no more than $25 and shall be ordered to enter a substance abuse treatment or education program or both, if available, that in the opinion of the court best suits the needs of the accused.</p><p>C. Any juvenile who violates subsection A is subject to a civil penalty of no more than $25 and the court shall require the accused to enter a substance abuse treatment or education program or both, if available, that in the opinion of the court best suits the needs of the accused. For purposes of §§ <a href='/vacode/16.1-266/'>16.1-266</a>, <a href='/vacode/16.1-273/'>16.1-273</a>, <a href='/vacode/16.1-278.8/'>16.1-278.8</a>, <a href='/vacode/16.1-278.8:01/'>16.1-278.8:01</a>, and <a href='/vacode/16.1-278.9/'>16.1-278.9</a>, the court shall treat the child as delinquent.</p><p>D. Any such substance abuse treatment or education program to which a person is ordered pursuant to this section shall be provided by (i) a program licensed by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services or (ii) a program or services made available through a community-based probation services agency established pursuant to Article 9 (§ <a href='/vacode/9.1-173/'>9.1-173</a> et seq.) of Chapter 1 of Title 9.1, if one has been established for the locality. When an offender is ordered to a local community-based probation services agency, the local community-based probation services agency shall be responsible for providing for services or referring the offender to education or treatment services as a condition of probation.</p><p>E. Any civil penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the Drug Offender Assessment and Treatment Fund established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/18.2-251.02/'>18.2-251.02</a>.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>.</p>