# ยง 8.9A-206 Security interest arising in purchase or delivery of financial asset.

<p>(a) Security interest when person buys through securities intermediary. A security interest in favor of a securities intermediary attaches to a person's security entitlement if:</p><p>(1) the person buys a financial asset through the securities intermediary in a transaction in which the person is obligated to pay the purchase price to the securities intermediary at the time of the purchase; and</p><p>(2) the securities intermediary credits the financial asset to the buyer's securities account before the buyer pays the securities intermediary.</p><p>(b) Security interest secures obligation to pay for financial asset. The security interest described in subsection (a) secures the person's obligation to pay for the financial asset.</p><p>(c) Security interest in payment against delivery transaction. A security interest in favor of a person that delivers a certificated security or other financial asset represented by a writing attaches to the security or other financial asset if:</p><p>(1) the security or other financial asset:</p><p>(A) in the ordinary course of business is transferred by delivery with any necessary endorsement or assignment; and</p><p>(B) is delivered under an agreement between persons in the business of dealing with such securities or financial assets; and</p><p>(2) the agreement calls for delivery against payment.</p><p>(d) Security interest secures obligation to pay for delivery. The security interest described in subsection (c) secures the obligation to make payment for the delivery.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>, ยง 8.9-116; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>.</p>