# § 3.2-1406 Management of referenda; Commissioner's duties; notice.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall arrange for and manage any referendum conducted under this chapter.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall, 60 days before the date upon which a referendum is to be held, mail notice to the clerk of the circuit court in each locality where corn is produced. The clerk of the circuit court shall post the notice and regulations on the front door or public bulletin board of the courthouse and certify the posting to the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall give notice of the referendum in a newspaper of general circulation in Richmond, Virginia, and shall send a notice of the referendum to a newspaper of general circulation in each locality where corn is produced, at least 60 days prior to the holding of any referendum under this chapter. The notice shall contain the date, hours, and method of voting in such referendum, the amount of assessment to be collected, the means by which such assessment shall be collected, the general purposes for which the assessments will be used, and the regulations adopted by the Board pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>C. The Commissioner shall prepare and distribute in advance of the referendum all necessary ballots, certificates, and supplies required for such referendum and shall, under regulations adopted by the Board, arrange for the use of polling places, if necessary.</p><p>D. The Commissioner shall, within 10 days after the referendum, canvass and publicly declare the results thereof and certify the same to the Governor and the Board.</p><p>1980, c. 395, §§ 3.1-1034, 3.1-1037 to 3.1-1039; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>