# § 2.2-1802 Payment of state funds into state treasury; deposits in state depositories; credit of fund not paid into general fund; exceptions as to endowments and gifts to institutions; appropriations by federal government.

<p>Every state department, division, officer, board, commission, institution or other agency owned or controlled by the Commonwealth, whether at the seat of government or not, collecting or receiving public funds, or moneys from any source, belonging to or for the use of the Commonwealth, or for the use of any state agency, shall hereafter pay the same promptly into the state treasury. All fees of office and commissions accruing to the State Treasurer shall be paid into the state treasury.</p><p>Any state department, division, officer, board, commission, institution or other agency at the seat of government shall deposit such moneys to the credit of the State Treasurer upon communicating with him and receiving instructions from him as to what state depository may be used for the purpose. In every such case the depositor shall retain a deposit receipt or a deposit certificate form certified by the bank receiving the deposit for every such deposit to the State Treasurer and send to the Comptroller a copy of the deposit receipt, certificate, or other documentation supporting the deposit, as prescribed by the Comptroller.</p><p>Any state department, division, officer, board, commission, institution or other agency not at the seat of government, other than county and city treasurers and clerks of courts, depositing such moneys to its or his credit in local banks shall deposit such moneys to the credit of the State Treasurer in a state depository duly designated in accordance with this chapter, and in every such case the depositor shall retain a deposit receipt or a deposit certificate form certified by the bank receiving the deposit for every deposit to the State Treasurer and send to the Comptroller a copy of the deposit receipt, certificate, or other documentation supporting the deposit, as prescribed by the Comptroller. Moneys deposited into such state depositories shall be transferred to a concentration bank as prescribed by the State Treasurer.</p><p>Moneys paid into the state treasury that are not now payable into the general fund of the state treasury shall be placed to the credit of the respective accounts that are required by law to be kept on the books of the Comptroller or to the credit of new accounts to be opened on the books of the Comptroller with such agencies so paying such moneys into the state treasury, respectively.</p><p>This chapter shall not apply to the endowment funds or gifts to institutions owned or controlled by the Commonwealth, or to the income from such endowment funds or gifts, or to private funds belonging to the students or inmates of state institutions. The cash as well as the notes of student loan funds shall be held by the respective institutions.</p><p>Appropriations made by the government of the United States to or for the benefit of any state institution or agency, however, shall be paid into the state treasury and used for the purposes for which such appropriations were made.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 2-150, 14-16; 1964, c. 386, § 14.1-15; 1966, c. 677, § 2.1-180; 1988, c. 260; 1992, c. 326; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872'>872</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>