# § 2.2-2735 Membership; qualifications; terms; vacancies; officers; compensation.

<p>A. The Foundation shall be administered by a board of trustees, consisting of 23 members as follows: two members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; three members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; two nonlegislative citizen members who shall be residents of Southwest Virginia and two nonlegislative citizen members who shall be executive directors of either Planning District Commission 1, 2, 3, 4, or 12 or their designees, to be appointed by the Governor; one nonlegislative citizen member who shall be an elected or appointed official of the Town of Abingdon to be appointed by the Governor upon the recommendation, if any, of the Abingdon Town Council; one nonlegislative citizen member who shall be an elected or appointed official of Washington County to be appointed by the Governor upon the recommendation, if any, of the Washington County Board of Supervisors; four nonlegislative citizen members who shall be artisans and members of 'Round the Mountain, who shall be appointed by the Governor upon the recommendation of the executive committee of 'Round the Mountain; and one nonlegislative citizen member who shall represent the Ninth Congressional District and serve as a member of the Virginia Commission for the Arts, to be appointed by the Governor upon the recommendation, if any, of the Executive Director of the Virginia Commission for the Arts. The President of Virginia Highlands Community College or his designee shall serve ex officio with nonvoting privileges. The Chairman of The Crooked Road, the Chairman of 'Round the Mountain, the Chairman of the Friends of Southwest Virginia, the Director of the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development, the Director of the Virginia Tourism Corporation, and the Executive Director of the Southwest Virginia Higher Education Center or their designees shall serve ex officio with voting privileges.</p><p>B. Legislative members and ex officio members of the Foundation board of trustees shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired term. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed.</p><p>C. No House member shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms, no Senate member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms, and no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.</p><p>D. Legislative members shall receive such compensation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>. All members of the Foundation shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Department of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>E. The Foundation shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its members and may appoint such other officers as it deems necessary. The Foundation shall appoint an executive committee and such other committees as it deems necessary to oversee personnel and other areas related to operations and the achievement of the goals of the Foundation.</p><p>2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0521'>521</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0548'>548</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0447'>447</a>.</p>