# § 30-174 Virginia Commission on Youth; purpose; membership; terms; compensation and expenses; quorum; voting on recommendations.

<p>A. The Virginia Commission on Youth (the Commission) is established in the legislative branch of state government. The purpose of the Commission shall be to study and provide recommendations addressing the needs of and services to the Commonwealth's youth and their families. In so doing, it shall encourage the development of uniform policies and services to youth across the Commonwealth and provide a forum for continuing review and study of such services. In addition to its own proposals, the Commission shall coordinate the proposals and recommendations of all commissions and agencies as to legislation affecting youth.</p><p>B. The Commission shall consist of 12 members to be appointed as follows: six members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; three members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and three nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. Legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall serve four-year terms. Members may be reappointed for successive terms. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>D. The Commission shall elect its chairman and vice-chairman annually. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>E. Members of the Commission shall receive compensation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a> and shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. However, all such compensation and expense payments shall come from existing appropriations to the Commission.</p><p>F. No recommendation of the Commission shall be adopted if a majority of the Senate members or a majority of the House members appointed to the Commission (i) vote against the recommendation and (ii) vote for the recommendation to fail notwithstanding the majority vote of the Commission.</p><p>1989, c. 189, §§ 9-292, 9-293; 1992, c. 778; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>.</p>