# § 6.2-836 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless a different meaning is required:</p><p>"Acquisition of a branch" means the acquisition of a branch located in a host state, without acquiring the bank of such branch.</p><p>"Affiliate" has the meaning assigned to it in 12 U.S.C. § 1841 (k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1841 et seq.), as amended.</p><p>"Bank" has the meaning assigned to it in 12 U.S.C. § 1813 (a) (1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1811 et seq.), as amended.</p><p>"Bank holding company" has the meaning assigned to it in 12 U.S.C. § 1841 (a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1841 et seq.), as amended.</p><p>"Commercial activities" means activities in which a bank holding company, a financial holding company, a national bank, or a national bank financial subsidiary may not engage under federal law.</p><p>"De novo branch" means a branch of a bank located in a host state which (i) is originally established by the bank as a branch and (ii) does not become a branch of the bank as a result of the acquisition of another bank or a branch of another bank, or the merger, consolidation, or conversion of any such bank or branch.</p><p>"Financial holding company" has the meaning assigned to it in 12 U.S.C. § 1841 (p) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1841 et seq.), as amended.</p><p>"Home state" means:</p><p>1. With respect to a national bank, the state in which the main office of the bank is located;</p><p>2. With respect to a state bank, the state by which the bank is chartered;</p><p>3. With respect to a foreign bank, the state determined to be the home state of such foreign bank under 12 U.S.C. § 3103 (c).</p><p>"Host state" means a state, other than the home state of a bank, in which the bank maintains, or seeks to establish and maintain, a branch.</p><p>"Out-of-state bank" means a bank whose home state is a state other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Out-of-state state bank" means a bank chartered under the laws of any state other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Virginia state bank" means a bank chartered under the laws of Virginia.</p><p>1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0301'>301</a>, § 6.1-44.2; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>