# § 28.2-302.2:1 Special combined individual sportfishing licenses.

<p>A. Residents and nonresidents of the Commonwealth may obtain:</p><p>1. A special combined sportfishing license to fish in all inland waters and the tidal waters of the Commonwealth during the open season. For residents, this license shall be in lieu of the state resident freshwater fishing license required by subdivision A 2 of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-310/'>29.1-310</a>, and the saltwater recreational license required by § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.1/'>28.2-302.1</a>. The cost of this license for residents shall be the sum of the costs of the two component resident licenses. For nonresidents, this license shall be in lieu of the state nonresident freshwater fishing license required by subdivision A 3 of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-310/'>29.1-310</a> and the saltwater recreational license required by § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.1/'>28.2-302.1</a>. The cost of this license for nonresidents shall be the sum of the costs of the two component nonresident licenses.</p><p>Agents of the Commission shall retain the agent's fee established by the Board of Wildlife Resources pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-327/'>29.1-327</a>, except that the agent's fee shall be deducted from the license fee established by the Commission pursuant to subdivision 4 of § <a href='/vacode/28.2-201/'>28.2-201</a>, as compensation for issuing each license. Of the funds collected under this subdivision, (i) the cost of the component saltwater license shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Virginia Saltwater Recreational Fishing Development Fund, as established in § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.3/'>28.2-302.3</a>, and (ii) the cost of the component freshwater fishing license shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Game Protection Fund, as established in § <a href='/vacode/29.1-101/'>29.1-101</a>.</p><p>The two component licenses shall be independently priced by their respective agencies. The saltwater recreational license shall be priced by the Commission pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/28.2-201/'>28.2-201</a>. The freshwater fishing license shall be priced by the Board of Wildlife Resources pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/29.1-103/'>29.1-103</a>.</p><p>2. A special combined sportfishing license to fish in all the tidal waters of the Commonwealth during the open season that covers the owner of a recreational boat not carrying anglers for hire, in any registered boat owned and operated by him, and his passengers. For residents, this license shall be in lieu of the state resident fishing license required by subdivision A 2 of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-310/'>29.1-310</a>, the saltwater recreational license required by § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.1/'>28.2-302.1</a>, and the saltwater recreational boat license established by § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.7/'>28.2-302.7</a>. The cost of this license for residents shall be $125. For nonresidents, this license shall be in lieu of the state nonresident fishing license required by subdivision A 3 of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-310/'>29.1-310</a> and the saltwater recreational license required by § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.1/'>28.2-302.1</a>. The cost of this license for nonresidents shall be $200.</p><p>Agents of the Commission shall retain the agent's fee established by the Board of Wildlife Resources pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-327/'>29.1-327</a>, except that the agent's fee shall be deducted from the license fee established by the Commission pursuant to subdivision 4 of § <a href='/vacode/28.2-201/'>28.2-201</a>, as compensation for issuing each license. Of the funds collected under this subdivision, (i) $48 per resident license sold and $76 per nonresident license sold shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Virginia Saltwater Recreational Fishing Development Fund, as established in § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.3/'>28.2-302.3</a>, and (ii) $77 per resident license sold and $124 per nonresident sold shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Game Protection Fund, as established in § <a href='/vacode/29.1-101/'>29.1-101</a>.</p><p>B. Residents and nonresidents of the Commonwealth may obtain a special combined sportfishing trip license to fish in all inland waters and tidal waters of the Commonwealth during the open season. This license shall be in lieu of the trip fishing license specified in subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-311/'>29.1-311</a> and the saltwater recreational license required by § <a href='/vacode/28.2-302.1/'>28.2-302.1</a>. The cost of the license shall be $10.50 for residents and $15.50 for nonresidents. The license shall be valid for five successive days as specified on the face of the license. Agents of the Commission shall retain the agent's fee established pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-327/'>29.1-327</a>, except that the agent's fee shall be deducted from the license fee established by the Commission pursuant to subdivision 4 of § <a href='/vacode/28.2-201/'>28.2-201</a>, as compensation for issuing each license. Of the funds collected under this subsection, (i) $5 per license sold shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Virginia Saltwater Recreational Fishing Development Fund and (ii) $5 per resident license sold and $10 per nonresident license sold shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Game Protection Fund.</p><p>C. The Commission may subsequently revise the cost of licenses in this section pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/28.2-201/'>28.2-201</a>.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0486'>486</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0030'>30</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0009'>9</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0287'>287</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0579'>579</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0958'>958</a>.</p>