# ยง 55.1-1932 Relocation of boundaries between units.

<p>A. If the condominium instruments expressly permit the relocation of boundaries between adjoining units, then the boundaries between such units may be relocated in accordance with (i) the provisions of this section and (ii) any restrictions and limitations not otherwise unlawful that the condominium instruments may specify. The boundaries between adjoining units shall not be relocated unless the condominium instruments expressly permit it.</p><p>B. If the unit owners of adjoining units whose mutual boundaries may be relocated desire to relocate such boundaries, then the principal officer of the unit owners' association, or such other officer as the condominium instruments may specify, shall, upon written application of such unit owners, forthwith prepare and execute appropriate instruments pursuant to subsections C, D, and E.</p><p>C. An amendment to the declaration shall identify the units involved and shall state that the boundaries between those units are being relocated by agreement of the unit owners of such units, and the amendment shall contain conveyancing between those unit owners. If the unit owners of the units involved have specified in their written application a reasonable reallocation as between the units involved of the aggregate undivided interest in the common elements appertaining to those units, the amendment to the declaration shall reflect that reallocation.</p><p>D. If the unit owners of the units involved have specified in their written application a reasonable reallocation as between the units involved of the aggregate number of votes in the unit owners' association allocated to those units, an amendment to the bylaws shall reflect that reallocation and a proportionate reallocation of liability for common expenses as between those units.</p><p>E. Such plats and plans as may be necessary to show the altered boundaries between the units involved together with their other boundaries shall be prepared, and the units depicted on such plats and plans shall bear their identifying numbers. Such plats and plans shall indicate the new dimensions of the units involved, and any change in the horizontal boundaries of either as a result of the relocation of their boundaries shall be identified with reference to established datum. Such plats and plans shall be certified as to their accuracy and compliance with the provisions of this subsection (i) by a licensed land surveyor in the case of any plat and (ii) by a licensed architect, licensed engineer, or licensed land surveyor in the case of any plan.</p><p>F. When appropriate instruments in accordance with this section have been prepared, executed, and acknowledged, they shall be recorded by an officer of the unit owners' association following payment by the unit owners of the units involved of all reasonable costs for the preparation, acknowledgment, and recordation of such instruments. Such instruments are effective when executed by the unit owners of the units involved and recorded, and the recordation of such instruments is conclusive evidence that the relocation of boundaries so effectuated did not violate any restrictions or limitations specified by the condominium instruments and that any reallocations made pursuant to subsections C and D were reasonable.</p><p>G. Any relocation of boundaries between adjoining units shall be governed by this section and not by ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1933/'>55.1-1933</a>. Section <a href='/vacode/55.1-1933/'>55.1-1933</a> shall apply only to such subdivisions of units as are intended to result in the creation of two or more new units in place of the subdivided unit.</p><p>1974, c. 416, ยง 55-79.69; 1991, c. 497; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>