# § 54.1-2519 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Administer" means the direct application of a controlled substance, whether by injection, inhalation, ingestion or any other means, to the body of a patient or research subject by (i) a practitioner or, under the practitioner's direction, his authorized agent or (ii) the patient or research subject at the direction and in the presence of the practitioner.</p><p>"Bureau" means the Virginia Department of State Police, Bureau of Criminal Investigation, Drug Diversion Unit.</p><p>"Controlled substance" means a drug, substance or immediate precursor in Schedules I through VI of the Drug Control Act, Chapter 34 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-3400/'>54.1-3400</a> et seq.) of this title.</p><p>"Covered substance" means all controlled substances included in Schedules II, III, and IV; controlled substances included in Schedule V for which a prescription is required; naloxone; and all drugs of concern that are required to be reported to the Prescription Monitoring Program, pursuant to this chapter. "Covered substance" also includes cannabis products dispensed by a pharmaceutical processor in Virginia.</p><p>"Department" means the Virginia Department of Health Professions.</p><p>"Director" means the Director of the Virginia Department of Health Professions.</p><p>"Dispense" means to deliver a controlled substance to an ultimate user, research subject, or owner of an animal patient by or pursuant to the lawful order of a practitioner, including the prescribing and administering, packaging, labeling or compounding necessary to prepare the substance for that delivery.</p><p>"Dispenser" means a person or entity that (i) is authorized by law to dispense a covered substance or to maintain a stock of covered substances for the purpose of dispensing, and (ii) dispenses the covered substance to a citizen of the Commonwealth regardless of the location of the dispenser, or who dispenses such covered substance from a location in Virginia regardless of the location of the recipient.</p><p>"Drug of concern" means any drug or substance, including any controlled substance or other drug or substance, where there has been or there is the potential for abuse and that has been identified by the Board of Pharmacy pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3456.1/'>54.1-3456.1</a>.</p><p>"Prescriber" means a practitioner licensed in the Commonwealth who is authorized pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-3303/'>54.1-3303</a> and <a href='/vacode/54.1-3408/'>54.1-3408</a> to issue a prescription for a covered substance or a practitioner licensed in another state to so issue a prescription for a covered substance.</p><p>"Recipient" means a person who receives a covered substance from a dispenser and includes the owner of an animal patient.</p><p>"Relevant health regulatory board" means any such board that licenses persons or entities with the authority to prescribe or dispense covered substances, including the Board of Dentistry, the Board of Medicine, the Board of Veterinary Medicine, and the Board of Pharmacy.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0481'>481</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0637'>637</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0678'>678</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0664'>664</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0185'>185</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0379'>379</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0567'>567</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0772'>772</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0227'>227</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0228'>228</a>.</p>