# § 38.2-1845.17 Requirement to report to Commission.

<p>A. Each licensed public adjuster shall report within 30 calendar days to the Commission any change in his residence address, email address, or name.</p><p>B. In addition to the requirements of §§ <a href='/vacode/59.1-69/'>59.1-69</a> and <a href='/vacode/59.1-70/'>59.1-70</a>, any individual or business entity licensed as a public adjuster in the Commonwealth and operating under an assumed or fictitious name shall provide notice to the Commission, at the earlier of the time the application for a public adjuster license is filed or within 30 calendar days from the date the assumed or fictitious name is adopted, setting forth the name under which the public adjuster intends to operate in the Commonwealth. The Commission shall also be notified within 30 calendar days from the date of cessation of the use of such assumed or fictitious name.</p><p>C. Each licensed public adjuster shall report to the Commission any conviction involving a felony, a crime of moral turpitude, or any criminal offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust in another jurisdiction or in the Commonwealth within 30 calendar days of the final disposition of the matter. This report shall include a copy of the order and other relevant legal documents.</p><p>D. Each licensed public adjuster shall report to the Commission within 30 calendar days of the final disposition of the matter of any administrative action taken against him in another jurisdiction or by another governmental agency in the Commonwealth. Such report shall include a copy of the order, consent order, or other relevant legal documents.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0735'>735</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0675'>675</a>.</p>