# ยง 15.2-2108.26 Reciprocity.

<p>Upon the request by an existing cable operator in the locality, a locality that has negotiated and granted a cable franchise to a new cable provider through negotiation, whether before or after July 1, 2006, shall make available to that existing cable operator the applicable terms and conditions that such locality provides to a new cable operator, by an amendment and restatement in lieu of its existing franchise document. In addition, upon the request by an existing cable operator in the locality, a locality adopting an ordinance under this article shall make available to that existing cable operator the applicable terms and conditions from any such ordinance by opting into an ordinance cable franchise. In either such event, the existing cable operator may accept all applicable terms and conditions only in their entirety and in lieu of its existing franchise document and without the ability to accept specific terms and conditions. The locality and the existing cable operator shall amend the cable franchise of the existing cable operator to substitute the new, applicable terms and conditions upon notice of acceptance from the existing cable operator. An existing cable provider in a locality shall have an enforceable right to require that its cable franchise be amended and restated within 90 days of its request to substitute the new, applicable terms and conditions of the new negotiated franchise or new ordinance cable franchise granted to a new cable franchisee. Notwithstanding any other provision in this article, (i) no existing cable operator shall reduce the geographic area in which it actually provides cable service as of July 1, 2006, by the exercise of its rights under this article, but its service obligations within such service areas shall be subject to the service exclusions set forth in clauses (a) through (i) of subdivision 12 of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2108.22/'>15.2-2108.22</a> and (ii) the provisions of this section shall not alter the time period remaining in any unexpired, existing franchise.</p><p>2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0073'>73</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0076'>76</a>.</p>