# ยง 2.2-5514 Prohibited products and services and required incident reporting.

<p>A. For the purposes of this section, "public body" means any legislative body; any court of the Commonwealth; any authority, board, bureau, commission, district, or agency of the Commonwealth; any political subdivision of the Commonwealth, including counties, cities, and towns, city councils, boards of supervisors, school boards, planning commissions, and governing boards of institutions of higher education; and other organizations, corporations, or agencies in the Commonwealth supported wholly or principally by public funds. "Public body" includes any committee, subcommittee, or other entity however designated of the public body or formed to advise the public body, including those with private sector or citizen members and corporations organized by the Virginia Retirement System.</p><p>B. No public body may use, whether directly or through work with or on behalf of another public body, any hardware, software, or services that have been prohibited by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security for use on federal systems.</p><p>C. Every public body shall report all (i) known incidents that threaten the security of the Commonwealth's data or communications or result in exposure of data protected by federal or state laws and (ii) other incidents compromising the security of the public body's information technology systems with the potential to cause major disruption to normal activities of the public body or other public bodies. Such reports shall be made to the Virginia Fusion Intelligence Center within 24 hours from when the incident was discovered. The Virginia Fusion Intelligence Center shall share such reports with the Chief Information Officer, as described in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2005/'>2.2-2005</a>, or his designee at the Virginia Information Technologies Agency, promptly upon receipt.</p><p>2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0302'>302</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0626'>626</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0627'>627</a>.</p>