# ยง 46.2-908.1:1 Personal delivery devices.

<p>A. A personal delivery device is authorized to operate on any sidewalk or crosswalk located in any county, city, or town in the Commonwealth. If a sidewalk or crosswalk is not accessible or available, a personal delivery device is authorized to operate on the side of any roadway in the Commonwealth, provided that the roadway has a speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less and the personal delivery device does not unreasonably interfere with motor vehicles or traffic. A locality may not prohibit the use of a personal delivery device on a roadway under its jurisdiction as set forth in this subsection, but may by ordinance adopt additional requirements designed to maintain safety for such roadway operation. The Commonwealth Transportation Board may not prohibit the use of a personal delivery device on a roadway under its jurisdiction as set forth in this subsection but may by regulation adopt additional requirements designed to maintain safety for such roadway operation.</p><p>B. A personal delivery device shall:</p><p>1. Not block any public rights-of-way;</p><p>2. Obey all traffic and pedestrian control devices and signs;</p><p>3. Operate at a speed that does not exceed 10 miles per hour on sidewalks and crosswalks;</p><p>4. Include a unique identifying device number;</p><p>5. Include a means of identifying the personal delivery device operator that is in a position and of such a size to be clearly visible; and</p><p>6. Be equipped with a braking system that, when active or engaged, will enable such personal delivery device to come to a controlled stop.</p><p>C. Any personal delivery device transporting hazardous materials shall comply with the federal Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49 U.S.C. ยง 5101 et seq.) and any corresponding federal regulations. For purposes of this section, hazardous materials include ammunition.</p><p>D. Subject to the requirements of this section, a personal delivery device operating on a sidewalk or crosswalk shall have all the rights and responsibilities applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstance.</p><p>E. A personal delivery device operator shall maintain insurance that provides general liability coverage of at least $100,000 for damages arising from the combined operations of personal delivery devices under a personal delivery device operator's control.</p><p>F. Any entity or person who uses a personal delivery device to engage in criminal activity is criminally liable for such activity.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0251'>251</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0788'>788</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1269'>1269</a>.</p>