# § 22.1-5 Regulations concerning admission of certain persons to schools; tuition charges.

<p>A. Consistent with Article VIII, Section 1 of the Constitution of Virginia, no person may be charged tuition for admission or enrollment in the public schools of the Commonwealth, whether on a full-time or part-time basis, who meets the residency criteria set forth in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-3/'>22.1-3</a>. No person of school age shall be charged tuition for enrollment in a program preparing students to pass a high school equivalency examination approved by the Board of Education or alternative program offered as a regional or divisionwide initiative by the local school division in which such person is deemed to reside pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-3/'>22.1-3</a>. Further, no person of school age shall be denied admission or charged tuition when (i) such person's custodial parent has been deployed outside the United States as a member of the Virginia National Guard or as a member of the United States armed forces; and (ii) such person's custodial parent has executed a Special Power of Attorney under Title 10, United States Code, § 1044b providing for the care of the person of school age by an individual who is defined as a parent in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-1/'>22.1-1</a> during the time of his deployment outside the United States. The person of school age shall be allowed to attend a school in the school division in which the individual providing for his care, pursuant to the Special Power of Attorney under Title 10, United States Code, § 1044b, resides. Furthermore, when practicable, such persons of school age may continue to attend school in the Virginia school division they attended immediately prior to the deployment and shall not be charged tuition for attending such division.</p><p>The following persons may, however, in the discretion of the school board of a school division and pursuant to regulations adopted by the school board, be admitted into the public schools of the division and may, in the discretion of the school board, be charged tuition:</p><p>1. Persons who reside within the school division but who are not of school age.</p><p>2. Persons of school age who are residents of the Commonwealth but who do not reside within the school division, except as provided in this section.</p><p>3. Persons of school age who are attending school in the school division pursuant to a foreign student exchange program approved by the school board.</p><p>4. Persons of school age who reside beyond the boundaries of the Commonwealth but near thereto in a state or the District of Columbia which grants the same privileges to residents of the Commonwealth.</p><p>5. Persons of school age who reside on a military or naval reservation located wholly or partly within the geographical boundaries of the school division and who are not domiciled residents of the Commonwealth of Virginia; however, no person of school age residing on a military or naval reservation located wholly or partly within the geographical boundaries of the school division may be charged tuition if federal funds provided under P.L. 874 of 1950, commonly known as Impact Aid, shall fund such students at not less than 50 percent of the total per capita cost of education, exclusive of capital outlay and debt service, for elementary or secondary pupils, as the case may be, of such school division. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, such persons of school age who reside on a military or naval reservation with military-owned housing located wholly or partly within the geographical boundaries of multiple school divisions shall be deemed eligible for interscholastic programs immediately upon enrollment in a public elementary or secondary school in any of the aforementioned school divisions, provided that such persons (i) satisfy all other requirements for eligibility and (ii) are dependents of a military service member required by the military to live on the military installation as evidenced by a statement on command letterhead signed by, or by direction of, the service member's commanding officer.</p><p>6. Persons of school age who, as domiciled residents of the Commonwealth who were enrolled in a public school within the school division, are required as a result of military or federal orders issued to their parents to relocate and reside on federal property in another state or the District of Columbia, if the school division subsequently enrolling such persons is contiguous to such state or District of Columbia.</p><p>7. Persons of school age who reside in the school division and who are enrolled in summer programs, exclusive of required remediation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-253.13:1/'>22.1-253.13:1</a>, or in local initiatives or programs not required by the Standards of Quality or the Standards of Accreditation.</p><p>For the purposes of determining the residency of persons described in subdivisions 1 and 2, local school boards shall adopt regulations consistent with the residency requirements regarding persons residing in housing or temporary shelter, or on property located in multiple jurisdictions, as articulated in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-3/'>22.1-3</a>.</p><p>B. Persons of school age who are not residents of the Commonwealth but are living temporarily with persons residing within a school division may, in the discretion of the school board and pursuant to regulations adopted by it, be admitted to the public schools of the school division. Tuition shall be charged such persons.</p><p>C. No tuition charge authorized or required in this section shall exceed the total per capita cost of education, exclusive of capital outlay and debt service, for elementary or secondary pupils, as the case may be, of such school division and the actual, additional costs of any special education or gifted and talented program provided the pupil, except that if the tuition charge is payable by the school board of the school division of the pupil's residence pursuant to a contract entered into between the two school boards, the tuition charge shall be that fixed by such contract.</p><p>D. School boards may accept and provide programs for students for whom English is a second language who entered school in Virginia for the first time after reaching their twelfth birthday, and who have not reached 22 years of age on or before August 1 of the school year. No tuition shall be charged such students, if state funding is provided for such programs.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 22-218.3, 22-219, 22-220; 1958, c. 628; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 81, § 1; 1964, c. 192; 1968, c. 178; 1976, cc. 681, 713; 1978, c. 140; 1980, c. 559; 1981, c. 342; 1993, c. 293; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0887'>887</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0394'>394</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0443'>443</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0465'>465</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0988'>988</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0253'>253</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0967'>967</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0042'>42</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0641'>641</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0669'>669</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0084'>84</a>.</p>