# ยง 19.2-400 Appeal lies to the Court of Appeals; time for filing notice.

<p>An appeal taken pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/19.2-398/'>19.2-398</a>, including such an appeal in an aggravated murder case, shall lie to the Court of Appeals of Virginia.</p><p>No appeal shall be allowed the Commonwealth pursuant to subsection A of ยง <a href='/vacode/19.2-398/'>19.2-398</a> unless within seven days after entry of the order of the circuit court from which the appeal is taken, and before a jury is impaneled and sworn if there is to be trial by jury or, in cases to be tried without a jury, before the court begins to hear or receive evidence or the first witness is sworn, whichever occurs first, the Commonwealth files a notice of appeal with the clerk of the trial court. If the appeal relates to suppressed evidence, the attorney for the Commonwealth shall certify in the notice of appeal that the appeal is not taken for the purpose of delay and that the evidence is substantial proof of a fact material to the proceeding. All other requirements related to the notice of appeal shall be governed by Part Five A of the Rules of the Supreme Court. Upon the filing of a timely notice of appeal, the order from which the pretrial appeal is taken and further trial proceedings in the circuit court, except for a bail hearing, shall thereby be suspended pending disposition of the appeal.</p><p>An appeal by the Commonwealth pursuant to subsection C of ยง <a href='/vacode/19.2-398/'>19.2-398</a> shall be governed by Part Five A of the Rules of the Supreme Court.</p><p>1987, c. 710; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0109'>109</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0344'>344</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0345'>345</a>.</p>