# ยง 13.1-898.7 Abandonment of domestication.

<p>A. Unless otherwise provided in the plan of domestication, after a plan of domestication has been adopted and approved by a domestic corporation as required by this article, and at any time before the certificate of incorporation surrender has become effective, the plan may be abandoned by the corporation without action by its members in accordance with any procedures set forth in the plan or, if no such procedures are set forth in the plan, in the manner determined by the board of directors.</p><p>B. A domesticating corporation that is a foreign corporation may abandon its domestication to a domestic corporation in the manner prescribed by its organic law.</p><p>C. If a domestication is abandoned after articles of incorporation surrender or articles of domestication have been filed with the Commission but before the certificate of incorporation surrender or certificate of domestication has become effective, a statement of abandonment signed by the domesticating corporation shall be delivered to the Commission for filing prior to the effective time and date of the certificate of incorporation surrender or certificate of domestication. If the Commission finds that the statement of abandonment complies with the requirements of law, it shall issue a certificate of abandonment, effective as of the date and time the statement of abandonment was received by the Commission, and the domestication shall be deemed abandoned and shall not become effective.</p><p>D. The statement of abandonment shall contain:</p><p>1. The name of the domesticating corporation and its jurisdiction of formation;</p><p>2. When the domestication corporation is a foreign corporation, the name of the domesticated corporation set forth in the articles of domestication;</p><p>3. The date on which the articles of incorporation surrender or articles of domestication were filed with the Commission;</p><p>4. The date and time on which the Commission's certificate of incorporation surrender or certificate of domestication becomes effective; and</p><p>5. A statement that domestication is being abandoned in accordance with this section or, when the domesticating corporation is a foreign corporation, a statement that the foreign corporation abandoned the domestication as required by its organic law.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0374'>374</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0623'>623</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>