# § 3.2-3611 Labeling.

<p>A. The distributor or guarantor of any regulated product distributed in the Commonwealth shall affix a label to the container or provide an invoice at the time of delivery for a bulk regulated product that states in clear, legible and conspicuous form, in the English language, the following information:</p><p>1. The quantity statement;</p><p>2. The grade under a given brand. The grade shall not be required when no primary nutrients are claimed;</p><p>3. The guaranteed analysis, which shall:</p><p>a. For fertilizers, conform to the requirements adopted by AAPFCO in its Official Publication in the Rules and Regulations-Fertilizer section of the Officially Adopted Documents, as amended, with the percentage of each plant nutrient stated as follows:</p><table class="mce-item-table" data-mce-selected="1"><tbody><tr><td class="hiddenTable" class="tbllft">a</td><td class="tbllft">(1)</td><td class="tbllft">Total Nitrogen (N)</td><td class="tbllft">......… %</td></tr><tr><td class="hiddenTable" class="tbllft">b</td><td class="tbllft"><br></td><td class="tbllft">Available Phosphate (P205)</td><td class="tbllft">......… %</td></tr><tr><td class="hiddenTable" class="tbllft">c</td><td class="tbllft"><br></td><td class="tbllft">Soluble Potash (K20)</td><td class="tbllft">......… %</td></tr></tbody></table><p>(2) For unacidulated mineral phosphate materials and basic slag, bone, tankage, and other organic phosphate materials, the available phosphate (P205), or the degree of fineness, or both, may also be guaranteed;</p><p>(3) Guarantees for plant nutrients other than nitrogen (N), phosphate (P205), and potash (K20) shall be expressed in the form of the element. A statement of the sources of nutrients including oxides, salt, and chelates, may be required on the application for registration of specialty fertilizers, and may be included as a parenthetical statement on the label. Degree of acidity or alkalinity (pH), beneficial substances, or compounds determinable by laboratory methods also may be guaranteed by permission of the Commissioner and with the advice of the Director of the Virginia Agricultural Experiment Station. When any degree of acidity or alkalinity (pH), beneficial substances, or compounds are guaranteed, they shall be subject to inspection and analysis in accord with the methods and regulations prescribed by the Board;</p><p>b. For soil amendments, conform to the requirements adopted by AAPFCO in its Official Publication in the Labeling section of the Uniform Soil Amendment Bill of the Officially Adopted Documents, as amended;</p><p>c. For horticultural growing media, include a list of ingredients and other guarantees as required by regulation and a statement of added fertilizers, if any;</p><p>d. When compost or digestate derived from sewage sludge, hazardous materials, unrendered animals or poultry or their parts, or other source material specified in regulations established by the Board is used as an ingredient, identify the source material of the compost or digestate;</p><p>e. When an industrial co-product is used as an ingredient, identify the source material and percentage or other acceptable unit; and</p><p>f. Include a list of such other ingredients and guarantees as may be required by the Board through regulation.</p><p>4. The name and address of the registrant or licensee; and</p><p>5. Directions for use and warning statements in accordance with the standards adopted by AAPFCO in its Officially Adopted Documents of the Official Publication, as amended.</p><p>B. A commercial fertilizer that is formulated according to specifications provided by a consumer prior to mixing shall be labeled to show: (i) the quantity statement; (ii) the guaranteed analysis; and (iii) the name and address of the distributor or the licensee.</p><p>C. [Repealed.]</p><p>D. Beginning December 31, 2013, lawn fertilizer and lawn maintenance fertilizer shall be labeled as follows:</p><p>"Do not apply near water, storm drains, or drainage ditches. Do not apply if heavy rain is expected. Apply this product only to your lawn/garden, and sweep any product that lands on the driveway, sidewalk, or street, back onto your lawn/garden."</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0740'>740</a>, § <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>.1-106.5; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0104'>104</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0341'>341</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0353'>353</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0552'>552</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0564'>564</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0538'>538</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>.</p>