# ยง 5.1-2.1 Virginia Aviation Commission continued as Virginia Aviation Board; membership; terms; Chairman.

<p>A. The Virginia Aviation Commission, a public body corporate and politic, is hereby continued within the Department of Aviation as a political subdivision of the Commonwealth and shall hereafter be known as the Virginia Aviation Board. The Board shall consist of eight members, selected so far as practicable from different geographic areas of the Commonwealth, appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, to serve at the pleasure of the Governor. Members shall serve for four-year terms and no member shall serve for more than two full successive terms. Initial appointments to the Board shall be made as follows: one shall be for a term of one year, two shall be for terms of two years, two shall be for terms of three years, and two shall be for terms of four years each and thereafter all appointments shall be for terms of four years each. The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Governor.</p><p>B. Whenever the Board shall acquire ownership or jurisdiction over an airport or airports previously operated by an agency of the United States, there may be a member appointed to the Board by the President of the United States. Such member shall have the powers and duties of other members of the Board only with respect to the airport or airports so acquired.</p><p>C. There may be a member of the Board from any county or city wherein the Board acquires or constructs an airport, to be elected by the governing body of the county or city and to serve at its pleasure. Such member shall have the powers and duties of other members of the Board only with respect to such airport. If the Board acquires an airport which was constructed by one political subdivision but is located in another, the political subdivision which constructed the airport, rather than the political subdivision in which it is located, shall be represented on the Board.</p><p>1979, c. 272; 1980, c. 750; 1985, c. 448.</p>