# § 32.1-276.3 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter:</p><p>"Actual reimbursement amount" means reimbursement information included in the claims data submitted by data suppliers to the Virginia All-Payer Claims Database, whether such information is referred to in the claims data as "paid amounts," "allowed amounts," or another term having the same or similar meaning and whether in reference to the payer who paid the actual reimbursement amount or the provider who received the actual reimbursement amount.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Health.</p><p>"Common data layout" means the national data collection standard adopted and maintained by the APCD Council.</p><p>"Consumer" means any person (i) whose occupation is other than the administration of health activities or the provision of health services, (ii) who has no fiduciary obligation to a health care institution or other health agency or to any organization, public or private, whose principal activity is an adjunct to the provision of health services, or (iii) who has no material financial interest in the rendering of health services.</p><p>"Covered lives" means subscribers, policyholders, members, enrollees, or dependents, as the case may be, under a policy or contract issued or issued for delivery in Virginia by a managed care health insurance plan licensee, insurer, health services plan, or preferred provider organization.</p><p>"ERISA plan" means any self-funded employee welfare benefit plan governed by the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. § 1002(1).</p><p>"Health care provider" means (i) a general hospital, ordinary hospital, outpatient surgical hospital, nursing home or certified nursing facility licensed or certified pursuant to Article 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/32.1-123/'>32.1-123</a> et seq.) of Chapter 5 of this title; (ii) a mental or psychiatric hospital licensed pursuant to Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/37.2-403/'>37.2-403</a> et seq.) of Chapter 4 of Title 37.2; (iii) a hospital operated by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services; (iv) a hospital operated by the University of Virginia or the Virginia Commonwealth University Health System Authority; (v) any person licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy in the Commonwealth pursuant to Chapter 29 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-2900/'>54.1-2900</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1; (vi) any person licensed to furnish health care policies or plans pursuant to Chapter 34 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-3400/'>38.2-3400</a> et seq.), Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4200/'>38.2-4200</a>), or Chapter 43 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4300/'>38.2-4300</a>) of Title 38.2; or (vii) any person licensed to practice dentistry pursuant to Chapter 27 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-2700/'>54.1-2700</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1 who is registered with the Board of Dentistry as an oral and maxillofacial surgeon and certified by the Board of Dentistry to perform certain procedures pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2709.1/'>54.1-2709.1</a>. In no event shall such term be construed to include continuing care retirement communities which file annual financial reports with the State Corporation Commission pursuant to Chapter 49 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4900/'>38.2-4900</a> et seq.) of Title 38.2 or any nursing care facility of a religious body which depends upon prayer alone for healing.</p><p>"Health maintenance organization" means any person who undertakes to provide or to arrange for one or more health care plans pursuant to Chapter 43 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4300/'>38.2-4300</a> et seq.) of Title 38.2.</p><p>"Inpatient hospital" means a hospital providing inpatient care and licensed pursuant to Article 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/32.1-123/'>32.1-123</a> et seq.) of Chapter 5, a hospital licensed pursuant to Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/37.2-403/'>37.2-403</a> et seq.) of Chapter 4 of Title 37.2, a hospital operated by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services for the care and treatment of individuals with mental illness, or a hospital operated by the University of Virginia or the Virginia Commonwealth University Health System Authority.</p><p>"Nonprofit organization" means a nonprofit, tax-exempt health data organization with the characteristics, expertise, and capacity to execute the powers and duties set forth for such entity in this chapter.</p><p>"Oral and maxillofacial surgeon" means, for the purposes of this chapter, a person who is licensed to practice dentistry in Virginia, registered with the Board of Dentistry as an oral and maxillofacial surgeon, and certified to perform certain procedures pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2709.1/'>54.1-2709.1</a>.</p><p>"Oral and maxillofacial surgeon's office" means a place (i) owned or operated by a licensed and registered oral and maxillofacial surgeon who is certified to perform certain procedures pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2709.1/'>54.1-2709.1</a> or by a group of oral and maxillofacial surgeons, at least one of whom is so certified, practicing in any legal form whatsoever or by a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity that employs or engages at least one oral and maxillofacial surgeon who is so certified, and (ii) designed and equipped for the provision of oral and maxillofacial surgery services to ambulatory patients.</p><p>"Outpatient surgery" means all surgical procedures performed on an outpatient basis in a general hospital, ordinary hospital, outpatient surgical hospital or other facility licensed or certified pursuant to Article 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/32.1-123/'>32.1-123</a> et seq.) of Chapter 5 of this title or in a physician's office or oral and maxillofacial surgeon's office, as defined above. Outpatient surgery refers only to those surgical procedure groups on which data are collected by the nonprofit organization as a part of a pilot study.</p><p>"Physician" means a person licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy in the Commonwealth pursuant to Chapter 29 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-2900/'>54.1-2900</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1.</p><p>"Physician's office" means a place (i) owned or operated by a licensed physician or group of physicians practicing in any legal form whatsoever or by a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity that employs or engages physicians and (ii) designed and equipped solely for the provision of fundamental medical care, whether diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, preventive or palliative, to ambulatory patients.</p><p>"Surgical procedure group" means at least five procedure groups, identified by the nonprofit organization designated pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-276.4/'>32.1-276.4</a> in compliance with regulations adopted by the Board, based on criteria that include, but are not limited to, the frequency with which the procedure is performed, the clinical severity or intensity, and the perception or probability of risk. The nonprofit organization shall form a technical advisory group consisting of members nominated by its Board of Directors' nominating organizations to assist in selecting surgical procedure groups to recommend to the Board for adoption.</p><p>"System" means the Virginia Patient Level Data System.</p><p>1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0902'>902</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0905'>905</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1046'>1046</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0764'>764</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0720'>720</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0897'>897</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0341'>341</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0466'>466</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0672'>672</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0673'>673</a>.</p>