# ยง 52-33 Powers and duties of Clearinghouse.

<p>The Clearinghouse shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. To maintain a centralized file for the exchange of information on missing children within the Commonwealth. The Clearinghouse shall accept a missing child report from any law-enforcement officer as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-101/'>9.1-101</a>. Any parent, guardian, legal custodian or other person standing in loco parentis of a missing child may contact the Clearinghouse to verify the entry of a missing child report on such child. If the Clearinghouse is requested to verify a missing child report which has not been received, the Clearinghouse shall immediately contact the appropriate law-enforcement agency and take such measures as may be necessary to determine whether a report should be entered in the centralized file.</p><p>2. To maintain a system of intrastate communication to receive information relating to the disappearance or sighting of missing children. Such system shall be available twenty-four hours per day, seven days per week.</p><p>3. To maintain close liaison with the National Crime Information Center and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children for the exchange of information on children suspected of interstate or international travel and for assistance in the operation of the Clearinghouse.</p><p>4. To circulate a monthly bulletin on missing children to the news media, all law-enforcement agencies, and every school in the Commonwealth.</p><p>5. To provide emergency flyers containing physical and situational descriptions of missing children when requested by law-enforcement agencies.</p><p>6. To provide for training of public and private organizations regarding the operation of the Clearinghouse.</p><p>7. To provide assistance to law-enforcement agencies in planning and implementing programs to fingerprint children.</p><p>1985, c. 259; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0818'>818</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0852'>852</a>.</p>