# § 9.1-914 Automatic notification of registration to certain entities; electronic notification to requesting persons.

<p>Any school or day-care service and child-minding service; state-regulated or state-licensed child day center, child day program, or family day home as those terms are defined in § <a href='/vacode/22.1-289.02/'>22.1-289.02</a>; assisted living facility, children's residential facility, or foster home as those terms are defined in § <a href='/vacode/63.2-100/'>63.2-100</a>; nursing home or certified nursing facility as those terms are defined in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-123/'>32.1-123</a>; association of a common interest community as defined in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2345/'>54.1-2345</a>; and institution of higher education may request from the State Police and, upon compliance with the requirements therefor established by the State Police, shall be eligible to receive from the State Police electronic notice of the registration, reregistration, or verification of registration information of any offender and if such entities do not have the capability of receiving such electronic notice, the entity may register with the State Police to receive written notification of offender registration, reregistration, or verification of registration information. Within three business days of receipt by the State Police of registration, reregistration, or verification of registration information, the State Police shall electronically or in writing notify an entity listed above that has requested such notification, has complied with the requirements established by the State Police and is located in the same or a contiguous zip code area as the address of the offender as shown on the registration.</p><p>The Virginia Council for Private Education shall annually provide the State Police, in an electronic format approved by the State Police, with the location of every private school in the Commonwealth that is accredited through one of the approved accrediting agencies of the Council, and an electronic mail address for each school if available, for purposes of receiving notice under this section.</p><p>Any person may request from the State Police and, upon compliance with the requirements therefor established by the State Police, shall be eligible to receive from the State Police electronic notice of the registration, reregistration, or verification of registration information of any offender. Within three business days of receipt by the State Police of registration, reregistration, or verification of registration information, the State Police shall electronically notify a person who has requested such notification, has complied with the requirements established by the State Police and is located in the same or a contiguous zip code area as the address of the offender as shown on the registration.</p><p>The State Police shall establish reasonable guidelines governing the automatic dissemination of Registry information, which may include the payment of a fee, whether a one-time fee or a regular assessment, to maintain the electronic access. The fee, if any, shall defray the costs of establishing and maintaining the electronic notification system and notice by mail.</p><p>For the purposes of this section:</p><p>"Child-minding service" means provision of temporary custodial care or supervisory services for the minor child of another;</p><p>"Day-care service" means provision of supplementary care and protection during a part of the day for the minor child of another; and</p><p>"School" means any public, religious or private educational institution, including any preschool, elementary school, secondary school, post-secondary school, trade or professional institution, or institution of higher education.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0584'>584</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0928'>928</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0857'>857</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0914'>914</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0119'>119</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0164'>164</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0424'>424</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0829'>829</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861'>861</a>.</p>