# ยง 54.1-2314 Refusal, suspension or revocation of license or registration.

<p>The Board may refuse to license or register any applicant, suspend a license or registration for a stated period or indefinitely, revoke any license or registration, censure or reprimand any person licensed or registered by the Board or place such person on probation for such time as it may designate for any of the following causes related to the sale or offering to the public of cemetery vaults, grave liners, urns, memorials, markers or monuments:</p><p>1. Conviction of any felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;</p><p>2. Unprofessional conduct which is likely to defraud or to deceive the public or clients;</p><p>3. Misrepresentation or fraud in the conduct of the cemetery company or its sales personnel, or in obtaining or renewing a license or registration;</p><p>4. False or misleading advertising;</p><p>5. Solicitation in violation of subsection B of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2327/'>54.1-2327</a>;</p><p>6. Direct or indirect payment or offer of payment of a commission to others by the licensee, his sales representatives, agents, or employees for the purpose of securing business;</p><p>7. Use of alcohol or drugs to the extent that such use renders him unsafe to practice his licensed or registered activity;</p><p>8. Aiding or abetting an unlicensed person to engage in the business of a cemetery company;</p><p>9. Using profane, indecent or obscene language within the immediate hearing of the family or relatives of a deceased, whose body has been interred or otherwise disposed of;</p><p>10. Violation of any statute, ordinance or regulation affecting the handling, custody, care or transportation of dead human bodies;</p><p>11. Failure to comply with subsection A of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2327/'>54.1-2327</a> and to keep on file an itemized statement of all retail prices and fees charged related to the sale of property or services as required by Board regulations and this chapter;</p><p>12. Charging third-party handling fees, which shall not include installation fees; and</p><p>13. Refusing to honor the transfer of preneed contract arrangements to another party. However the licensee shall not be responsible for paying additional costs associated with any actual transfer.</p><p>1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0708'>708</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0721'>721</a>.</p>