# ยง 54.1-3040.10 Effective date, withdrawal, and amendment.

<p>A. This Compact shall become effective and binding on the earlier of the date of legislative enactment of this Compact into law by no less than twenty-six (26) states or December 31, 2018. All party states to this Compact that also were parties to the prior Nurse Licensure Compact (Prior Compact) superseded by this Compact shall be deemed to have withdrawn from said Prior Compact within six (6) months after the effective date of this Compact.</p><p>B. Each party state to this Compact shall continue to recognize a nurse's multistate licensure privilege to practice in that party state issued under the Prior Compact until such party state has withdrawn from the Prior Compact.</p><p>C. Any party state may withdraw from this Compact by enacting a statute repealing the same. A party state's withdrawal shall not take effect until six (6) months after enactment of the repealing statute.</p><p>D. A party state's withdrawal or termination shall not affect the continuing requirement of the withdrawing or terminated state's licensing board to report adverse actions and significant investigations occurring prior to the effective date of such withdrawal or termination.</p><p>E. Nothing contained in this Compact shall be construed to invalidate or prevent any nurse licensure agreement or other cooperative arrangement between a party state and a non-party state that is made in accordance with the other provisions of this Compact.</p><p>F. This Compact may be amended by the party states. No amendment to this Compact shall become effective and binding upon the party states unless and until it is enacted into the laws of all party states.</p><p>G. Representatives of non-party states to this Compact shall be invited to participate in the activities of the Commission, on a nonvoting basis, prior to the adoption of this Compact by all states.</p><p>2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0108'>108</a>.</p>