# ยง 46.2-2133 Grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking certificates.

<p>A certificate of fitness issued under this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds, where applicable:</p><p>1. Material misstatement or omission in application for certificate of fitness or vehicle registration;</p><p>2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written warning from the Department or any willful failure to comply with a lawful order, any provision of this chapter or any regulation promulgated by the Department under this chapter, or any term or condition of any certificate of fitness;</p><p>3. Use of deceptive business acts or practices;</p><p>4. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact that is untrue, misleading, or deceptive relating to the conduct of the business for which a certificate of fitness or vehicle registration is held or sought;</p><p>5. Having been found, through a judicial or administrative hearing, to have committed fraudulent or deceptive acts in connection with the business for which a certificate of fitness is held or sought or any consumer-related fraud;</p><p>6. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the business for which a certificate of fitness is held or sought;</p><p>7. Improper leasing, renting, lending, or otherwise allowing the improper use of a certificate of fitness, identification marker issued by the Department, or vehicle registration;</p><p>8. Having been convicted of a felony;</p><p>9. Having been convicted of any misdemeanor involving lying, cheating, stealing, or moral turpitude;</p><p>10. Failure to submit to the Department any tax, fees, dues, fines, or penalties owed to the Department;</p><p>11. Failure to furnish the Department information, documentation, or records required or requested pursuant to statute or regulation;</p><p>12. Knowingly and willfully filing any false report, account, record, or memorandum;</p><p>13. Failure to meet or maintain application certifications or requirements of character, fitness, and financial responsibility pursuant to this chapter;</p><p>14. Willfully altering or changing the appearance or wording of any license, certificate, identification marker issued by the Department, license plate, or vehicle registration;</p><p>15. Failure to provide services in accordance with certificate of fitness terms, limitations, conditions, or requirements;</p><p>16. Failure to maintain and keep on file with the Department motor carrier liability insurance or cargo insurance, issued by a company licensed to do business in the Commonwealth, or a bond, certificate of insurance, certificate of self-insurance, or unconditional letter of credit in accordance with this chapter, with respect to each motor vehicle operated in the Commonwealth;</p><p>17. Failure to comply with the Workers' Compensation Act of Title 65.2;</p><p>18. Failure to properly register a motor vehicle under this title;</p><p>19. Failure to comply with any federal motor carrier statute, rule, or regulation; or</p><p>20. Inactivity of a motor carrier as may be evidenced by the absence of a motor vehicle registered to operate under such certificate for a period of greater than three months.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596'>596</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0889'>889</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582'>582</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0790'>790</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0815'>815</a>.</p>