# ยง 38.2-1845.1 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article:</p><p>"Catastrophic disaster" means an event where the President of the United States or the Governor of the Commonwealth has declared a state of emergency.</p><p>"Home state" means the District of Columbia and any state or territory of the United States, except Virginia, or any province of Canada, in which a public adjuster maintains such person's principal place of residence or principal place of business and is licensed by that jurisdiction to act as a resident public adjuster.</p><p>"License" means a document issued by the Commission authorizing an individual or business entity to act as a public adjuster. The license itself does not create any authority, actual, apparent, or inherent, in the licensee to represent, commit, or bind an insurer.</p><p>"Negotiate" means the act of conferring directly with or offering advice directly to a purchaser or prospective purchaser of a particular contract of public adjusting concerning any of the substantive benefits, terms, or conditions of the contract.</p><p>"Proof of compliance" means all documents, forms, and fees specified by the Commission for filing proof of completion of Commission-approved continuing education courses for the appropriate number of hours and for the appropriate content.</p><p>"Public adjuster" means an individual or business entity who receives, either directly or indirectly, a salary, fee, commission, or other compensation for engaging in public adjusting.</p><p>"Public adjusting" means soliciting, investigating, negotiating, adjusting, or providing advice to an insured in relation to first party claims arising under insurance contracts that insure the real or personal property of an insured for the purpose of effecting the settlement of a claim on behalf of the insured. Public adjusting includes advertising or representing oneself as a public adjuster; however, public adjusting does not include acting in any manner in relation to liability claims for personal injury or property damage, other third-party claims, or uninsured or underinsured bodily injury liability claims. A licensed insurance agent who only provides advice to an insured in relation to first party claims arising under insurance contracts sold, solicited, or negotiated by the agent that insure the real or personal property of an insured shall not be deemed to be engaged in public adjusting.</p><p>"Received by the Commission" means delivered into the possession of the Commission or its administrator at the business address of the Commission's administrator.</p><p>"Soliciting" means attempting to persuade or asking or urging an insured to enter into a public adjusting contract by describing the terms of the contract, including any fees or commissions, and offering to negotiate a claim of loss on behalf of the insured.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0735'>735</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0627'>627</a>.</p>