# ยง 28.2-707 Restrictions on crab dredging; penalty.

<p>A. It is unlawful for any boat licensed to dredge crabs to use more than two dredges at any time when dredging for crabs. Such boat may use only one dredge on each side of the boat or join two dredges together for use over the stern of the boat. The size of dredges shall not exceed limits established by the Commission. The Commission is authorized to promulgate regulations limiting the size of dredges.</p><p>B. It is unlawful to dislodge crabs from the bottom with a crab dredge using hydraulic methods.</p><p>C. It is unlawful to use a crab dredge on Saturday.</p><p>D. It is unlawful to use a dredge for catching crabs between April 1 and December 1; however, the Commission, when in its judgment it is advisable due to weather conditions or for purposes relating to the conservation of the blue crab and it is not contrary to the public interest, may close a season in its entirety, may open any season as early as November 16, may delay opening any season, may extend any season until April 16 and may close any season early.</p><p>E. It is unlawful to use dredges to take crabs in any of the rivers, or their estuaries, inlets, or creeks, except on the ocean side of Accomack and Northampton Counties.</p><p>Any person who violates any provision of this section is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-171; 1960, c. 517; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-166; 1981, c. 52; 1983, c. 603, ยง 28.1-165.1; 1992, cc. 122, 836; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0492'>492</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0433'>433</a>.</p>