# ยง 18.2-178.2 Financial exploitation by an agent; penalty.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Agent" means the same as that term is defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/64.2-1600/'>64.2-1600</a>.</p><p>"Financial exploitation" means the illegal, unauthorized, or fraudulent use, or deprivation of use, of the property of a vulnerable adult with the intention of benefiting someone other than the vulnerable adult.</p><p>"Power of attorney" means a writing or other record that grants authority to an agent to act in the place of the principal, whether or not the term "power of attorney" is used.</p><p>"Principal" means an individual who grants authority to an agent in a power of attorney.</p><p>"Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.</p><p>"Vulnerable adult" means the same as that term is defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-369/'>18.2-369</a>.</p><p>B. An agent under a power of attorney who knowingly or intentionally engages in financial exploitation of a vulnerable adult who is the principal of that agent is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. A violation of this section shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. If the acts or activities violating this section also violate another provision of law, a prosecution under this section shall not prohibit or bar any prosecution or proceeding under such other provision or the imposition of any penalties provided for thereby.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0397'>397</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0654'>654</a>.</p>