# ยง 20-171 Beginning and concluding collaborative law process.

<p>A. A collaborative law process begins when the parties sign a collaborative law participation agreement.</p><p>B. A tribunal shall not order a party to participate in a collaborative law process over such party's objection.</p><p>C. A collaborative law process is concluded by a:</p><p>1. Resolution of a collaborative matter as evidenced by a signed record;</p><p>2. Resolution of a part of the collaborative matter, evidenced by a signed record, in which the parties agree that the remaining parts of the matter will not be resolved in the process; or</p><p>3. Termination of the process.</p><p>D. A collaborative law process terminates:</p><p>1. When a party gives notice to his collaborative lawyer and to other parties in a record that the process is ended;</p><p>2. When a party:</p><p>a. Begins a proceeding related to a collaborative matter without the agreement of all parties; or</p><p>b. In a pending proceeding related to the matter, (i) initiates a pleading, motion, order to show cause, or request for a conference with the tribunal; (ii) requests that the proceeding be put on the tribunal's active docket; or (iii) takes similar action requiring notice to be sent to the parties; or</p><p>3. Except as otherwise provided by subsection G, when a party discharges a collaborative lawyer or a collaborative lawyer withdraws from further representation of a party.</p><p>E. A party's collaborative lawyer shall give prompt notice to all other parties in a record of a discharge or withdrawal.</p><p>F. A party may terminate a collaborative law process with or without cause.</p><p>G. Notwithstanding the discharge or withdrawal of a collaborative lawyer, a collaborative law process continues if, not later than 30 days after the date that the notice of the discharge or withdrawal of a collaborative lawyer required by subsection E is sent to the parties:</p><p>1. The unrepresented party engages a successor collaborative lawyer; and</p><p>2. In a signed record:</p><p>a. The parties consent to continue the process by reaffirming the collaborative law participation agreement;</p><p>b. The collaborative law participation agreement is amended to identify the successor collaborative lawyer; and</p><p>c. The successor collaborative lawyer confirms the lawyer's representation of a party in the collaborative process.</p><p>H. A collaborative law process does not conclude if, with the consent of the parties, a party requests a tribunal to approve a resolution of the collaborative matter or any part of such matter as evidenced by a signed record, including any orders necessary to effectuate the terms of an agreement reached in the collaborative law process and evidenced in a signed record.</p><p>I. A collaborative law participation agreement may provide additional methods of concluding a collaborative law process.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0346'>346</a>.</p>