# ยง 54.1-3600 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Applied psychologist" means an individual licensed to practice applied psychology.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Psychology.</p><p>"Certified sex offender treatment provider" means a person who is certified to provide treatment to sex offenders and who provides such services in accordance with the provisions of &sect;&sect; <a href="http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3005/">54.1-3005</a>, <a href="http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3505/">54.1-3505</a>, <a href="http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3611/">54.1-3611</a>, and <a href="http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3705/">54.1-3705</a> and the regulations promulgated pursuant to these provisions.</p><p>"Clinical psychologist" means an individual licensed to practice clinical psychology.</p><p>"Practice of applied psychology" means application of the principles and methods of psychology to improvement of organizational function, personnel selection and evaluation, program planning and implementation, individual motivation, development and behavioral adjustment, as well as consultation on teaching and research.</p><p>"Practice of clinical psychology" includes, but is not limited to:</p><p>1. "Testing and measuring" which consists of the psychological evaluation or assessment of personal characteristics such as intelligence, abilities, interests, aptitudes, achievements, motives, personality dynamics, psychoeducational processes, neuropsychological functioning, or other psychological attributes of individuals or groups.</p><p>2. "Diagnosis and treatment of mental and emotional disorders" which consists of the appropriate diagnosis of mental disorders according to standards of the profession and the ordering or providing of treatments according to need. Treatment includes providing counseling, psychotherapy, marital/family therapy, group therapy, behavior therapy, psychoanalysis, hypnosis, biofeedback, and other psychological interventions with the objective of modification of perception, adjustment, attitudes, feelings, values, self-concept, personality or personal goals, the treatment of alcoholism and substance abuse, disorders of habit or conduct, as well as of the psychological aspects of physical illness, pain, injury or disability.</p><p>3. "Psychological consulting" which consists of interpreting or reporting on scientific theory or research in psychology, rendering expert psychological or clinical psychological opinion, evaluation, or engaging in applied psychological research, program or organizational development, administration, supervision or evaluation of psychological services.</p><p>"Practice of psychology" means the practice of applied psychology, clinical psychology or school psychology.</p><p>The "practice of school psychology" means:</p><p>1. "Testing and measuring" which consists of psychological assessment, evaluation and diagnosis relative to the assessment of intellectual ability, aptitudes, achievement, adjustment, motivation, personality or any other psychological attribute of persons as individuals or in groups that directly relates to learning or behavioral problems that impact education.</p><p>2. "Counseling" which consists of professional advisement and interpretive services with children or adults for amelioration or prevention of problems that impact education.</p><p>Counseling services relative to the practice of school psychology include but are not limited to the procedures of verbal interaction, interviewing, behavior modification, environmental manipulation and group processes.</p><p>3. "Consultation" which consists of educational or vocational consultation or direct educational services to schools, agencies, organizations or individuals. Psychological consulting as herein defined is directly related to learning problems and related adjustments.</p><p>4. Development of programs such as designing more efficient and psychologically sound classroom situations and acting as a catalyst for teacher involvement in adaptations and innovations.</p><p>"Psychologist" means a person licensed to practice school, applied or clinical psychology.</p><p>"School psychologist" means a person licensed by the Board of Psychology to practice school psychology.</p><p>1976, c. 608, &sect; 54-936; 1987, cc. 522, 543; 1988, c. 765; 1994, c. <a href="http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0778">778</a>; 1996, cc. <a href="http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0937">937</a>, <a href="http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0980">980</a>; 2004, c. <a href="http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0011">11</a>.</p>