# ยง 18.2-340.34:1 Bingo managers and callers; remuneration; registration; qualification; suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew certificate; exceptions.

<p>A. No person shall receive remuneration as a bingo manager or caller from any qualified organization unless and until such person has made application for and has been issued a registration certificate by the Department. Application for registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department and shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $75. Each registration certificate shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. Application for renewal of a registration certificate shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $75 and shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.</p><p>B. As a condition of registration as a bingo manager, the applicant shall (i) have been a bona fide member of the qualified organization for at least 12 consecutive months prior to making application for registration and (ii) be required to complete a reasonable training course developed and conducted by the Department.</p><p>As a condition of registration as a bingo caller, the applicant shall be required to complete a reasonable training course developed and conducted by the Department.</p><p>The Department may refuse to register any bingo manager or caller who has (a) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony in any state or federal court or has been convicted of any offense which, if committed in the Commonwealth, would be a felony; (b) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime involving gambling; (c) had any license, permit, certificate, or other authority related to activities defined as charitable gaming in the Commonwealth suspended or revoked in the Commonwealth or in any other jurisdiction; or (d) failed to file or has been delinquent in excess of one year in the filing of any tax returns or the payment of any taxes due the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The Department may suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the registration certificate of any bingo manager or caller for any conduct described in subsection B or for any violation of this article or Department regulations. Before taking any such action, the Department shall give the bingo manager or caller a written statement of the grounds upon which it proposes to take such action and an opportunity to be heard. Every hearing in a contested case shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>D. The provisions of subsection A requiring registration for bingo callers with the Department shall not apply to a bingo caller for a volunteer fire department or volunteer emergency medical services agency or auxiliary unit thereof that has been recognized in accordance with ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-955/'>15.2-955</a> by an ordinance or resolution of the political subdivision where the volunteer fire department or volunteer emergency medical services agency is located as being a part of the safety program of such political subdivision.</p><p>2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0776'>776</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0826'>826</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0226'>226</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0347'>347</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0554'>554</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0609'>609</a>.</p>