# ยง 64.2-2008 Fees and costs.

<p>A. The petitioner shall pay the filing fee set forth in subdivision A 42 of ยง <a href='/vacode/17.1-275/'>17.1-275</a> and costs. Service fees and court costs may be waived by the court if it is alleged under oath that the estate of the respondent is unavailable or insufficient. If a guardian or conservator is appointed and the court finds that the petition is brought in good faith and for the benefit of the respondent, the court shall order that the petitioner be reimbursed from the estate for all reasonable costs and fees if the estate of the incapacitated person is available and sufficient to reimburse the petitioner. If a guardian or conservator is not appointed and the court nonetheless finds that the petition is brought in good faith and for the benefit of the respondent, the court may direct the respondent's estate, if available and sufficient, to reimburse the petitioner for all reasonable costs and fees. The court may require the petitioner to pay or reimburse all or some of the respondent's reasonable costs and fees and any other costs incurred under this chapter if the court finds that the petitioner initiated a proceeding under this chapter that was in bad faith or not for the benefit of the respondent.</p><p>B. In any proceeding filed pursuant to this article, if the adult subject of the petition is determined to be indigent, any fees and costs of the proceeding that are fixed by the court or taxed as costs shall be borne by the Commonwealth.</p><p>1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0076'>76</a>, ยง 37.1-134.13:1; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>, ยง 37.2-1008; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614'>614</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0523'>523</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0427'>427</a>.</p>