# § 3.2-4400 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Apiary" means any place where one or more colonies of bees are kept.</p><p>"Appliance" means any apparatus, tool, machine, or other device used in the handling and manipulating of bees, honey, wax, hives, and hive parts and shall include containers used in transporting, processing, storing, or merchandising bees and bee products.</p><p>"Bee" means the honeybee, Apis mellifera and genetic variations thereof, at any living stage; and may include other hymenopterous insects that depend on pollen and nectar for food.</p><p>"Bee diseases" means departures from a sound state of health of bees characterized by visible symptoms including American foulbrood and any other diseases, insects, mites, or bee pests.</p><p>"Bee equipment" means hives and hive parts including frames, supers, covers, bottom boards, and beekeeping apparel.</p><p>"Brood comb" means the assemblage of cells containing any living stage of bees at any time prior to their emergence as adults.</p><p>"Certificate of health" means a state-of-origin document prepared and signed by the State Apiarist or other authorized person declaring the bees, bee equipment, appliances, apiaries, and honey houses to be free of bee diseases.</p><p>"Colony" means a queenright assemblage of social bees capable of reproducing.</p><p>"Combless package" means a shipping container for transporting bees or queens.</p><p>"Entry permit" means a state-of-destination document prepared by the State Apiarist or other authorized person authorizing the entry of bee equipment, appliances, and bees on combs into the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Hive" means a box, skep, barrel, log gum, or other container used as a domicile for bees.</p><p>"Honey house" means any building where honey for commercial use is extracted, graded, processed, packed, or stored.</p><p>"Person" means the term as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/1-230/'>1-230</a>. The term also means any society.</p><p>Code 1950, § 3-483; 1966, c. 702, § 3.1-588; 1972, c. 499, § 3.1-610.1; 1982, c. 100; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>