# ยง 9.1-207.2 Prohibition on use of certain oriented strand board.

<p>A. As used in this section:</p><p>"Acquired structure" means a building or structure acquired by local government from a property owner for the purpose of conducting live fire training evolutions.</p><p>"Class A fuel materials" includes wood, straw, and paper products.</p><p>"Fire training activities" includes the utilization of live fire training structures designed for conducting live fire training evolutions on a repetitive basis. "Fire training activities" does not include the utilization of acquired structures for conducting live fire training evolutions.</p><p>"Local government" includes any locality, fire district, regional fire protection authority, or other special purpose district that provides firefighting services.</p><p>"Oriented strand board" means a multilayered board made from strands of wood, together with a binder, by the application of heat and pressure, with the strands in the external layer primarily oriented along the panel's strength axis in accordance with US Product Standard 2-18, Performance Standard for Wood Structured Panels. For purposes of this section only, "oriented strand board" means a wood structural panel intended as a covering material for roofs, subfloors, and walls when fastened to supports.</p><p>B. No person, local government, or agency of the Commonwealth shall burn Class A fuel materials that contain oriented strand board during live fire training activities.</p><p>C. No provision of this section shall restrict the manufacture, sale, use, or distribution of Class A fuel materials that contain oriented strand board for purposes outside of fire training activities.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0285'>285</a>.</p>