# § 59.1-335.4 Bond or letter of credit required.

<p>A. Every credit services business, before it enters into a contract with a consumer, shall file and maintain with the Commissioner, in form and substance satisfactory to him, a bond with corporate surety from a company authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth, or a letter of credit from a bank insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in an amount equal to 100 times the standard fee charged by the credit services business but in no event shall the bond or letter of credit required under this section be less than $5,000 or greater than $50,000.</p><p>B. The required bond or letter of credit shall be in favor of the Commonwealth of Virginia for the benefit of any person who is damaged by any violation of this Act. The bond or letter of credit shall also be in favor of any person damaged by such practices. Any person claiming against the bond or letter of credit for a violation of this Act may maintain an action at law against the credit services business and against the surety or bank. The surety or bank shall be liable only for actual damages and attorneys fees and not for penalties permitted under §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-206/'>59.1-206</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-335.12/'>59.1-335.12</a> or punitive damages permitted under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-335.10/'>59.1-335.10</a>. The aggregate liability of the surety or bank to all persons damaged by a credit services business violation of this chapter shall in no event exceed the amount of the bond or letter of credit.</p><p>C. The bond or letter of credit shall be maintained for a period of two years after the date that the credit services business ceases operation.</p><p>1989, c. 655.</p>