# § 22.1-280.2:3 School boards; safety and security personnel.

<p>A. The school board in each school division in which the local law-enforcement agency employs school resource officers, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/9.1-101/'>9.1-101</a>, shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with such local law-enforcement agency that sets forth the powers and duties of such school resource officers. The provisions of such memorandum of understanding shall be based on the model memorandum of understanding developed by the Virginia Center for School and Campus Safety pursuant to subdivision A 12 of § <a href='/vacode/9.1-184/'>9.1-184</a>, which may be modified by the parties in accordance with their particular needs. Each such school board and local law-enforcement agency shall review and amend or affirm such memorandum at least once every two years or at any time upon the request of either party. Each school board shall ensure the current division memorandum of understanding is conspicuously published on the division website and provide notice and opportunity for public input during each memorandum of understanding review period.</p><p>B. The chief local law-enforcement officer for any local school division in which a public elementary or secondary school does not employ a school resource officer, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/9.1-101/'>9.1-101</a>, shall designate a law-enforcement officer to receive, either in-person or online, the training set forth in subsection E of § <a href='/vacode/22.1-279.8/'>22.1-279.8</a>. Such officer shall serve as the law-enforcement liaison for the school administrator described in subsection E of § <a href='/vacode/22.1-279.8/'>22.1-279.8</a> in each public elementary or secondary school that does not employ a school resource officer.</p><p>2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0455'>455</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0052'>52</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0769'>769</a>.</p>