# ยง 32.1-89 Health services for persons suffering from hemophilia and related diseases.

<p>A. The State Board of Health shall establish a program for the care and treatment of persons suffering from hemophilia and other related bleeding diseases who are unable to pay for the entire cost of such services on a continuing basis despite the existence of various types of hospital and medical insurance. The program may include (i) payments on behalf of such persons for obtaining blood, blood derivatives and concentrates, for necessary medical, surgical, dental, hospital and outpatient clinic services and for rehabilitation; (ii) the establishment of, or contracts for, hospital and clinic facilities for the diagnosis and treatment of such persons; (iii) participation in the cost of blood processing to the extent that such participation will facilitate the supplying of blood, blood derivatives and concentrates and other efficacious agents to such persons; and (iv) development of, or participation in the cost of developing, programs for the care and treatment of such persons, including self-administration, prevention and home care and medical and dental procedures and techniques designed to provide maximum control over bleeding episodes typical in such persons.</p><p>B. The State Board of Health may provide home and clinic health services for persons suffering from hemophilia or other related bleeding diseases who are not eligible under subsection A. The State Board of Health may provide such services through cooperative agreements with medical facilities or other appropriate means. Charges for persons receiving care or treatment under this subsection shall be determined by the State Board of Health. Funds received in payment for such services are hereby appropriated to the State Board of Health for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this section.</p><p>C. The State Board of Health shall provide for the development, implementation, and sustainability of a process for the receipt and consideration of advice and policy recommendations at least annually from, and on behalf of, persons suffering from hemophilia and other related bleeding diseases, for the purpose of informing programs and services established under this section.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 32-8.6; 1976, c. 296; 1979, c. 711; 1985, c. 448; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0696'>696</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>