# ยง 32.1-361.1 Virginia Foundation for Healthy Youth Endowment.

<p>A. There is hereby established in the state treasury a special fund to be designated the "Virginia Foundation for Healthy Youth Endowment" (the Endowment). The Endowment shall receive any proceeds from any sale of all or any portion of the Foundation Allocation, deposits from the Fund as determined by the Board pursuant to subdivision 5 of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-356/'>32.1-356</a>, and any gifts, grants, and contributions that are specifically designated for inclusion in such Endowment. No part of the Endowment, neither corpus nor income, or interest thereon, shall revert to the general fund of the state treasury. The Endowment shall be under the management and control of the Treasury Board and the Treasury Board shall have such powers and authority as may be necessary to exercise such management and control consistent with the provisions of this section. The income of the Endowment shall be paid out, not less than annually, to the Fund. In addition, up to 10 percent of the corpus of the Endowment shall be paid to the Fund annually upon request of the Board to the Treasury Board; provided, however, that upon two-thirds vote of the Board, up to 15 percent of the corpus of the Endowment shall be so paid. No use of proceeds shall be made that would cause bonds issued on a tax-exempt basis to be considered taxable. For purposes of this section, "income" of the Endowment means at the time of determination the lesser of the available cash in, or the realized investment income for the applicable period of the Endowment, and "corpus" of the endowment means at the time of determination the sum of the proceeds from the sale of all or any portion of the Foundation Allocation, deposits from the Fund as determined by the Board pursuant to subdivision 5 of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-356/'>32.1-356</a>, any gifts, grants, and contributions that have been credited to such Endowment, and any income not appropriated and withdrawn from the Endowment before June 30 of each year, less withdrawals from the corpus. Determinations by the Treasury Board, or the State Treasurer on behalf of the Treasury Board, as to the amount of income or the amount of the corpus shall be conclusive.</p><p>B. The Treasury Board shall serve as trustee of the Endowment and the corpus and income of the Endowment shall be withdrawn and credited to the Fund by order of the Treasury Board as provided in subsection A. The State Treasurer shall be custodian of the funds credited to the Endowment. The Treasury Board shall have full power to invest and reinvest funds credited to the Endowment in accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1100/'>64.2-1100</a> et seq.) and, in addition, as otherwise provided by law. The Treasury Board may borrow money in such amounts as may be necessary whenever in its judgment it would be more advantageous to borrow money than to sell securities held for the Fund. Any debt so incurred may be evidenced by notes duly authorized by resolution of the Treasury Board, such notes to be retired no later than the end of the biennium in which such debt is incurred. The Treasury Board may commingle, for purposes of investment, the corpus of the Endowment provided that it shall appropriately account for the investments credited to the Endowment. The Treasury Board may hire independent investment advisors and managers as it deems appropriate to assist with investing the Endowment. The expenses of making and disposing of investments, such as brokerage commissions, legal expenses related to a particular transaction, investment advisory and management fees and expenses, transfer taxes and other customary transactional expenses shall be payable out of the income of the Endowment.</p><p>C. Not less than annually and more frequently if desired by the Board or requested by the Treasury Board, the Board shall provide to the Treasury Board schedules of anticipated disbursements from the Fund for the current and succeeding fiscal year, and the Treasury Board shall, to the extent practicable, take into account such schedules and changes thereto in scheduling maturities and redemptions of its investments of the Endowment.</p><p>2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0345'>345</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0184'>184</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0424'>424</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0554'>554</a>.</p>