# ยง 45.2-1144  Reports of explosions and mine fires; procedure.

<p>A. If an explosion or mine fire occurs in a mine, the operator shall notify the Department by the quickest available means. Any independent contractor shall notify the licensed operator of such incident. All facilities of the mine shall be made available for rescue and recovery operations and firefighting.</p><p>B. No work other than rescue and recovery work and firefighting shall be attempted or started until and unless it is authorized by the Department.</p><p>C. If an explosion occurs in an underground mine, the fan shall not be reversed except by authority of the officials in charge of rescue and recovery work, and then only after a study of the effect of reversing the fan on persons who might have survived the explosion and are still underground.</p><p>D. The Department shall make available all the facilities at its disposal in effecting rescue and recovery work. The Director shall act as consultant, or take personal charge, where in his opinion the circumstances of any mine explosion, fire, or other accident warrant.</p><p>E. The orders of the officials in charge of rescue and recovery work shall be respected and obeyed by all persons engaged in rescue and recovery work.</p><p>F. The Director shall maintain an up-to-date rescue and recovery plan for prompt and adequate employment at any mineral mine in the Commonwealth. All employees of the Department shall be kept fully informed and trained in their respective duties in executing rescue and recovery plans. The Department's plans shall be published annually and furnished to all licensed operators of mineral mines. Changes in the plan shall be published promptly when made and furnished to all licensed operators of mines.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390'>390</a>, ยง 45.1-161.292:50; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0695'>695</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>