# ยง 30-246 Organization, internal procedures and delegation of powers; officers and employees as state employees.

<p>A. The Commission members shall serve as the governing body of the Commission, and, except as hereinafter provided, shall exercise and discharge all powers, functions and responsibilities assigned to the Commission. The Commission shall provide for the organization of internal procedures of the Commission and to this end shall adopt suitable bylaws. The Commission shall have a chairman and two vice-chairmen, chosen by the respective delegation, whose offices shall rotate annually among the signatory states and may at no time be held by members from the same signatory. The Commission may maintain one or more offices for the transaction of its business. The Commission may, without regard to the civil service or the laws of any signatory relative to public officers and employees, create and abolish offices, employments and positions as it deems necessary for the purposes of the Commission, affix and provide for the duties, conditions of employment, qualifications, appointment, removal, term, compensation, and other rights and benefits of the Commission's officers and employees, and shall appoint the principal officers of the Commission and allocate among them administrative functions, powers, and duties. The Commission may delegate to the officers and employees of the Commission any powers, functions and responsibilities under this agreement as it deems suitable, except that it may not delegate its power to make recommendations to the respective legislatures, to issue reports or to adopt the annual expense budget.</p><p>B. Every full-time officer or employee of the Commission on a salary basis shall be eligible for pension and health and related insurance offered to employees of one of the member states, provided that such officer or employee so elects within 30 days of commencing employment; and provided that the Commission allocates funds in its budget for the employer share of these benefits.</p><p>1980, c. 662, ยง 62.1-69.10; 1982, c. 54; 1985, c. 149; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>.</p>