# § 24.2-412 Other locations and times for voter registration.

<p>A. In addition to voter registration locations provided for in §§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-411/'>24.2-411</a>, <a href='/vacode/24.2-411.2/'>24.2-411.2</a>, and <a href='/vacode/24.2-411.3/'>24.2-411.3</a>, opportunities for voter registration may be provided at other agency offices, business offices, establishments, and occasional sites open to the general public, and shall be provided as required by this section. Voter registration shall be conducted only in public places open to the general public and at preannounced hours. Deputy registrars should serve during such hours and at such places. The conduct of voter registration by the general registrar or a deputy registrar in public places at preannounced hours shall not be deemed solicitation of registration.</p><p>B. The general registrar is authorized to set within his jurisdiction ongoing locations and times for registration in local or state government agency offices or in businesses or other establishments open to the general public, subject to the approval of, and pursuant to an agreement with, the head of the government agency, the owner or manager of the business or establishment, or the designee of either. The agreement shall provide for the appointment of employees of the agency, business, or establishment to serve as deputy registrars and shall be in writing and approved by the local electoral board prior to implementation.</p><p>Employees of the agency, business, or establishment who are appointed to serve as deputy registrars may be nonresidents of the jurisdiction they are appointed to serve, provided that (i) they are qualified voters of the Commonwealth and (ii) they serve only at their place of employment within the jurisdiction they are appointed to serve.</p><p>C. The general registrar or electoral board may set additional occasional sites and times for registration within the jurisdiction. A multifamily residential building not usually open to the public may be used as an occasional registration site so long as the public has free access to the site during the time for registering voters. Voter registration conducted in a high school or at the location of a naturalization ceremony shall not be required to be open to the public.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 24-74 through 24-76, 24-78; 1963, Ex. Sess., c. 2; 1970, c. 462, § 24.1-49; 1975, c. 515; 1976, c. 616; 1984, c. 480; 1985, c. 530; 1986, c. 248, § 24.1-45.2; 1987, c. 478; 1988, c. 305; 1989, c. 743; 1991, cc. 42, 136; 1993, c. 641; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0072'>72</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0073'>73</a>; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0523'>523</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0858'>858</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0908'>908</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0909'>909</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0140'>140</a>.</p>