# ยง 15.2-4302 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advisory committee" means the agricultural and forestal districts advisory committee.</p><p>"Agricultural products" means crops, livestock and livestock products, including but not limited to: field crops, fruits, vegetables, horticultural specialties, cattle, sheep, hogs, goats, horses, poultry, furbearing animals, milk, eggs and furs.</p><p>"Agricultural production" means the production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock and livestock products, and includes the processing or retail sales by the producer of crops, livestock or livestock products which are produced on the parcel or in the district.</p><p>"Agriculturally and forestally significant land" means land that has recently or historically produced agricultural and forestal products, is suitable for agricultural or forestal production or is considered appropriate to be retained for agricultural and forestal production as determined by such factors as soil quality, topography, climate, markets, farm structures, and other relevant factors.</p><p>"Application" means the set of items a landowner or landowners must submit to the local governing body when applying for the creation of a district or an addition to an existing district.</p><p>"District" means an agricultural, forestal, or agricultural and forestal district.</p><p>"Forestal production" means the production for commercial purposes of forestal products and includes the processing or retail sales, by the producer, of forestal products which are produced on the parcel or in the district. "Forestal products" includes, but is not limited to, saw timber, pulpwood, posts, firewood, Christmas trees and other tree and wood products for sale or for farm use.</p><p>"Landowner" or "owner of land" means any person holding a fee simple interest in property but does not mean the holder of an easement.</p><p>"Program administrator" means the local governing body or local official appointed by the local governing body to administer the agricultural and forestal districts program.</p><p>1977, c. 681, ยง 15.1-1508; 1979, c. 377; 1981, c. 54; 1987, c. 552; 1997, c. 587; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0344'>344</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>.</p>