# ยง 51.1-147 Members' contribution account.

<p>A. All members' contributions and interest allowances shall be credited to the member's contribution account. Accumulated contributions required to be returned to a member or required to be paid in the event of a member's death before retirement shall be paid from the member's contribution account.</p><p>B. At the end of each payroll period, the Comptroller shall transfer to the members' contribution account an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the deductions which would have been made for the preceding payroll period from the salaries of all members from the appropriate fund in the state treasury. The Comptroller shall forward a record of all such transfers to the Board. In all other cases, the employer shall transmit its warrant to the State Treasurer for the payment of an amount equal to the aggregate amount of the deductions made for each payroll period from the salaries of all members paid by the employer for the preceding payroll period. The funds collected by the State Treasurer shall be credited to the members' contribution account. The State Treasurer shall transmit a record of all moneys collected to the Comptroller and the Board.</p><p>C. Each individual account of the members' contribution account shall be credited annually with interest at the rate of four percent annually on the accumulated contributions of the member. Interest shall accrue on any contribution beginning at the end of the fiscal year in which the contribution was made. The Board shall have the authority to determine the manner in which the interest is to be credited to the members' contribution account.</p><p>D. Upon the retirement of a member, his accumulated contributions shall be transferred from the members' contribution account to the retirement allowance account.</p><p>1952, c. 157, ยง 51-111.49; 1966, c. 174; 1970, c. 476; 1976, c. 540; 1982, c. 467; 1986, c. 474; 1990, c. 832.</p>