# ยง 33.2-3602 Interstate 81 Corridor Improvement Program; report.

<p>A. The Board shall adopt an Interstate 81 Corridor Improvement Program. The Program shall, at a minimum:</p><p>1. Allocate year by year the revenues, if any, from the Fund and bond proceeds, if any, backed by the Fund to projects and strategies identified in the Plan adopted by the Board;</p><p>2. Include a financing plan to support such allocation; and</p><p>3. Include a schedule for all new projects and strategies identified in the Plan adopted by the Board.</p><p>B. Prior to the adoption of such Program, the Board shall review the recommendations of and consult with the Committee.</p><p>C. The Board shall update the Program annually by July 1.</p><p>D. By December 15 of each year, the Board shall report to the General Assembly regarding the status and progress of implementation of the Program. The report shall be submitted to the Chairmen of the House Committees on Appropriations and Transportation and the Senate Committees on Finance and Appropriations and on Transportation. Prior to the submission of such report each year, the Board shall consult with the Committee. The report shall include, at a minimum:</p><p>1. The safety and performance of the Interstate 81 corridor, including the number of incidents, the average duration of incidents, the number and average duration of incidents involving lane closures, and the person-hours of delay along the Interstate 81 corridor;</p><p>2. An assessment of the effectiveness of the operational strategies and capital projects implemented and funded through the Program;</p><p>3. The status of capital projects funded through the Program; and</p><p>4. The current and projected balances of the Fund.</p><p>2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0837'>837</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0846'>846</a>.</p>