# ยง 54.1-2726.1 Restricted volunteer license for certain dental hygienists.

<p>A. The Board may issue a restricted volunteer license to a dental hygienist who:</p><p>1. Held an unrestricted license in Virginia or another state as a licensee in good standing at the time the license expired or became inactive;</p><p>2. Is sponsored and supervised by a dentist who holds an unrestricted license in the Commonwealth;</p><p>3. Is volunteering for a public health or community free clinic that provides dental services to populations of underserved people;</p><p>4. Has fulfilled the Board's requirement related to knowledge of the laws and regulations governing the practice of dentistry in Virginia;</p><p>5. Has not failed a clinical examination within the past five years; and</p><p>6. Has had at least five years of clinical practice.</p><p>B. A person holding a restricted volunteer license under this section shall:</p><p>1. Only practice in public health or community free clinics that provide dental hygiene services to underserved populations;</p><p>2. Only treat patients who have been screened by the approved clinic and are eligible for treatment;</p><p>3. Attest on a form provided by the Board that he will not receive remuneration directly or indirectly for providing dental hygiene services; and</p><p>4. Not be required to complete continuing education in order to renew such a license.</p><p>C. A dental hygienist with a restricted volunteer license issued under this section shall only practice dental hygiene under the direction of a dentist with an unrestricted license in Virginia.</p><p>D. A restricted voluntary license granted pursuant to this section shall expire on the June 30 of the second year after its issuance, or shall terminate when the supervising dentist withdraws his sponsorship. Such license may be renewed annually thereafter as long as the supervising dentist continues to sponsor the licensee.</p><p>E. A dental hygienist holding a restricted volunteer license issued pursuant to this section is subject to the provisions of this chapter, the regulations promulgated under this chapter, and the disciplinary regulations which apply to all dental hygienists practicing in Virginia.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0719'>719</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0326'>326</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0505'>505</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>.</p>