# ยง 58.1-2247 Issuance, denial or cancellation of license.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall issue a license to each applicant whose application is approved. A license shall not be transferable and remains in effect until surrendered or canceled.</p><p>B. The Commissioner may refuse to issue a license under this article to an applicant if (i) the applicant or (ii) any principal of the applicant that is a business entity has:</p><p>1. Had a license or registration issued under prior law or this chapter canceled by the Commissioner for cause;</p><p>2. Had an alternative fuel license or registration issued by another state canceled for cause;</p><p>3. Had a federal Certificate of Registry issued under ยง 4101 of the Internal Revenue Code, or a similar federal authorization, revoked;</p><p>4. Been convicted of any offense involving fraud or misrepresentation; or</p><p>5. Been convicted of any other offense that indicates that the applicant may not comply with this chapter if issued a license.</p><p>C. The Commissioner may cancel the license of any person licensed under this article, upon written notice sent by certified mail to the licensee's last known address appearing in the Commissioner's files, for any of the following reasons:</p><p>1. Filing by the licensee of a false report of the data or information required by this article;</p><p>2. Failure, refusal, or neglect of the licensee to comply with any provision of this chapter or any regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter;</p><p>3. Failure of the licensee to pay the full amount of the tax required by this article;</p><p>4. Failure of the licensee to keep accurate records of the quantities of alternative fuel received, produced, refined, manufactured, compounded, sold, or used in the Commonwealth;</p><p>5. Failure to file a new or additional bond or certificate of deposit upon request of the Commissioner pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2246/'>58.1-2246</a>; or</p><p>6. Conviction of the licensee or a principal of the licensee for any prohibited act listed under this article.</p><p>D. Upon cancellation of any license for any cause listed in subsection C, the tax levied under this chapter shall become due and payable on (i) all untaxed alternative fuel held in storage or otherwise in the possession of the licensee and (ii) all alternative fuel sold, delivered, or used prior to the cancellation on which the tax has not been paid.</p><p>E. The Commissioner may cancel any license upon the written request of the licensee.</p><p>F. Upon cancellation of any license and payment by the licensee of all taxes due, including all penalties accruing due to any failure by the licensee to comply with the provisions of this article, the Commissioner shall cancel and surrender the bond or certificate of deposit filed by such licensee.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0594'>594</a>.</p>