# § 3.2-1804 Powers and duties of the Potato Board.

<p>A. The Board shall have charge of the management and expenditures of the Virginia Potato Fund established in the state treasury.</p><p>B. The Board may expend funds to provide for programs of research, education, publicity, advertising, and other promotion; manage the fund so as to accumulate a reserve for contingencies; establish an office and employ such technical and professional assistants as may be required; contract for research, publicity, advertising and other promotional services; and take all actions as will assist in strengthening and promoting the best interest of producers of potatoes.</p><p>C. In carrying out the purposes of this chapter, the Board may cooperate with other state, regional, and national agricultural organizations in research, education, publicity, advertising, and other promotional activities.</p><p>D. The Board may establish an executive committee and charge it with those powers, duties, and functions as the Board deems proper.</p><p>E. The chairman of the Board shall make an annual report to the Board including a statement of the total receipts and disbursements for the year and shall file a copy of the report and the audit required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-1810/'>3.2-1810</a> with the Commissioner.</p><p>F. The Board shall adopt regulations to establish standards for seed potatoes and to carry out the provisions of this chapter and, at the recommendation of the chairman, request that the Commissioner, the Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, the Chairman of the Certified Seed Board, and the Director of the Eastern Shore Agricultural Research and Extension Center at Painter appoint representatives to advise the Board.</p><p>1982, c. 126, §§ 3.1-684.32, 3.1-684.36; 1985, c. 448; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>