# § 51.1-157 Disability retirement allowance.

<p>A. Allowance payable on retirement. — Upon retirement for disability, a member who has five or more years of creditable service shall receive an annual retirement allowance during his lifetime and continued disability equal to 1.70 percent of his average final compensation multiplied by the smaller of (i) twice the amount of his creditable service or (ii) the amount of creditable service he would have completed at age 60 if he had remained in service to that age. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for a member who (a) is a person who becomes a member on or after July 1, 2010, or (b) does not have at least 60 months of creditable service as of January 1, 2013, the allowance shall equal 1.65 percent of his average final compensation multiplied by the smaller of (1) twice the amount of his creditable service or (2) the amount of creditable service he would have completed at age 60 if he had remained in service to that age. If a member has already attained age 60, the amount of creditable service at his date of retirement shall be used.</p><p>For retirements between October 1, 1994, and December 31, 1998, any employee or local officer who is a member or beneficiary of a retirement system administered by the Board shall receive an additional retirement allowance equal to three percent of the disability retirement allowance payable under this section; provided that, for purposes of this additional retirement allowance, the term employee shall include only those employees of political subdivisions that have adopted a resolution providing for such an allowance under subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/51.1-130/'>51.1-130</a>. Average final compensation attributable to service as Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Attorney General, or member of the General Assembly shall not be included in computing this additional retirement allowance.</p><p>B. Workers' compensation guarantee. — If a member retires for disability from a cause which is compensable under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act (§ <a href='/vacode/65.2-100/'>65.2-100</a> et seq.), the amount of the annual retirement allowance shall equal 66 and two-thirds percent of the member's average final compensation if the member does not qualify for social security disability benefits under the provisions of the Social Security Act in effect on the date of his retirement. If the member qualifies for social security disability benefits or has attained his normal retirement age under the provisions of the Social Security Act in effect on the date of his retirement, the allowance payable from the retirement system shall equal 50 percent of his average final compensation. A member shall be entitled to the larger of the retirement allowance as determined under the provisions of subsection A or under the provisions of this subsection.</p><p>C. Reduction of allowance. — Any allowance payable to a member who retires for disability from a cause compensable under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act shall be reduced by the amount of any payments under the provisions of the Act in effect on the date of retirement of the member and the excess of the allowance shall be paid to the member. When the time for compensation payments under the Act has elapsed, the member shall receive the full amount of the allowance payable during his lifetime and continued disability. If the member's payments under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act are adjusted or terminated for refusal to work or to comply with the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/65.2-603/'>65.2-603</a>, his allowance shall be computed as if he were receiving the compensation to which he would otherwise be entitled.</p><p>D. Special retirement allowance guarantee. — Any member retired from a cause which is not compensable under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act shall be guaranteed an annual retirement allowance during his lifetime and continued disability which equals 50 percent of the member's average final compensation if the member does not qualify for social security disability benefits under the provisions of the Social Security Act in effect on the date of his retirement. If the member qualifies for social security disability benefits or has attained his normal retirement age under the provisions of the Social Security Act in effect on the date of retirement, the allowance payable from the retirement system shall equal 33 and one-third percent of his average final compensation.</p><p>E. Determination of retirement allowance. — For the purposes of this section, the retirement allowance shall be determined on the assumption that the retirement allowance is payable to the member alone and that no optional retirement allowance is elected.</p><p>1952, c. 157, § 51-111.57; 1956, cc. 560, 652; 1960, c. 604; 1962, c. 245; 1964, c. 186; 1966, c. 174; 1970, c. 476; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 88; 1972, c. 568; 1973, c. 523; 1974, c. 353; 1976, c. 541; 1980, c. 722, § 51-111.57:1; 1982, c. 467; 1986, c. 474; 1990, c. 832; 1993, c. 895; 1994, 1st Sp. Sess., c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0005'>5</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0674'>674</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0823'>823</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0053'>53</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0054'>54</a>.</p>