# ยง 28.2-100 Definitions.

<p>As used in this title, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Commission" means the Marine Resources Commission.</p><p>"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Marine Resources.</p><p>"Fish" or "marine fish" means those finfish species which spend a major portion of their lives in marine or estuarine waters. Sunfish, crappies, and carp are not considered to be marine fish.</p><p>"Fishing", "fisheries" or "to fish" means all operations involved in (i) taking or catching, (ii) using, setting or operating apparatus employed in killing, taking or catching, or (iii) transporting or preparing for market marine fish, shellfish, and marine organisms.</p><p>"Habitat" means those state-owned bottomlands, tidal wetlands and coastal primary sand dunes which are subject to regulation under Subtitle III of this title.</p><p>"Marine organisms" means those species other than marine finfish or marine shellfish which inhabit marine or estuarine waters. Terrapin and marine mammals are considered to be marine organisms.</p><p>"Marine shellfish" or "shellfish" means such species of mollusca as oysters and clams, and such species of crustacea as crabs.</p><p>"Officer" means a member of the Virginia Marine Police.</p><p>"Territorial sea" means the waters within the belt, three nautical miles wide, that is adjacent to Virginia's coast and seaward of the mean low-water mark.</p><p>"Tidewater Virginia" means the following counties: Accomack, Arlington, Caroline, Charles City, Chesterfield, Essex, Fairfax, Gloucester, Hanover, Henrico, Isle of Wight, James City, King and Queen, King George, King William, Lancaster, Mathews, Middlesex, New Kent, Northampton, Northumberland, Prince George, Prince William, Richmond, Spotsylvania, Stafford, Surry, Westmoreland, and York; and the Cities of Alexandria, Chesapeake, Colonial Heights, Fairfax, Falls Church, Fredericksburg, Hampton, Hopewell, Newport News, Norfolk, Petersburg, Poquoson, Portsmouth, Richmond, Suffolk, Virginia Beach, and Williamsburg.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-1; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-1; 1968, c. 746; 1972, c. 472; 1992, c. 836; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0789'>789</a>.</p>