# ยง 54.1-2409.4 Authority to receive laboratory results directly.

<p>A. Any health care practitioner licensed under this title who, within the scope of his practice, orders a laboratory test or other examination of the physical condition of any person shall, if so requested by the patient or his legal guardian, provide a copy of the report of the results to the patient or his legal guardian, unless, in the professional opinion of the health care practitioner, there is a medical reason not to do so.</p><p>B. The health care practitioner, at his sole discretion, may authorize the laboratory to provide a copy of the report of the results directly to the patient or his legal guardian. The patient or his legal guardian shall then be considered authorized to receive the report or result for the purposes of the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments.</p><p>C. With the prior authorization of the patient, a laboratory may, contemporaneously with, or subsequent to, furnishing the report to the ordering health care practitioner, provide a copy of the report of the results directly to the insurance carrier, health maintenance organization, or self-insured plan that provides health insurance or similar coverage to the patient. The insurance carrier, health maintenance organization, or self-insured plan shall then be considered authorized to receive the report or result for the purposes of the federal Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments.</p><p>2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0887'>887</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0930'>930</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0807'>807</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0849'>849</a>.</p>