# ยง 46.2-1192 Issuance and renewal of licenses by Department; payments to regional training centers.

<p>The Department of Motor Vehicles is authorized to issue or renew licenses for regional motorcycle rider safety training centers for the conducting of motorcycle rider safety training courses, and to make payments in fulfillment of those licenses requiring reimbursement from funds appropriated from the Motorcycle Rider Safety Training Program Fund. The Department shall determine the number of such reimbursed licenses issued or renewed based on (i) the training centers meeting the requirements set forth in this article, (ii) regional demand for such training, and (iii) availability of funding. Costs eligible for reimbursement, method of payment, and required documentation associated with such payment shall be specified by the Department at the time the license is issued or renewed. Such licenses shall be valid for the period specified, but shall not exceed three years.</p><p>Those licenses issued or renewed for providers of such training courses that do not require reimbursement shall be awarded based on the training centers meeting the requirements set forth in this article. Such licenses shall be valid for the period specified, but shall not exceed three years.</p><p>No license shall be transferred or assigned as a result of any change in (i) the individual who is authorized to obligate the training center, (ii) ownership or (iii) officers in a corporation or other business entity without the approval of the Department. Such approval shall be based on the licensing requirements set forth in this article.</p><p>1984, c. 476, ยง 46.1-570; 1989, c. 727; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0226'>226</a>.</p>