# ยง 37.2-719 Statement forms to be completed by the person liable for support of an individual receiving services.

<p>The Commissioner may prescribe statement forms that shall be completed by those persons liable under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/37.2-715/'>37.2-715</a> for the support of the individual receiving services. The statement shall be sworn to by the person and returned to the Commissioner within 30 days from the time the statement was mailed to the person. Should the person fail to return the properly completed statement to the Commissioner within 30 days, the Commissioner shall send another statement by registered mail. If the statement is not then returned properly completed within 30 days, the person to whom it was sent by registered mail shall be assessed $5 for each week or part of each week in excess of the 30-day period that the statement is overdue. The Department shall collect these assessments in the same manner as other sums due for the care, treatment or training, and maintenance of individuals receiving services from the persons whose duty it was to complete each statement. When collected, these assessments shall be paid into the same fund into which other collections are paid under this article.</p><p>A statement of liability imposed by this section shall be placed in a prominent place, in boldface type, upon each statement form.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 37-125.15; 1952, c. 492; 1956, c. 493; 1958, c. 472; 1962, c. 80; 1968, c. 477, ยง 37.1-118; 1976, c. 671; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507'>507</a>.</p>