# § 63.2-306 Local boards established by two or more political subdivisions.

<p>The provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-302/'>63.2-302</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-304/'>63.2-304</a> notwithstanding, the Board, with the prior consent of the Governor, may establish districts consisting of two or more counties or cities or combinations of cities and counties. Except as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-307/'>63.2-307</a>, there shall be one district board of not less than three nor more than nine members for each such district. There shall be at least one member of the district board from each county and city in the district. Additional representation from one or more counties or cities within the stipulated maximum may be determined by the Board, with population being the principal factor in such determination. Appointments to the district board shall be made by the governing body of each county and city in the district, upon certification of the establishment of such district by the Board. The Board shall designate the initial term of each district board member to be not less than one nor more than four years in duration, so as to provide for a balanced overlapping of terms. Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of four years each, except appointments to fill a vacancy, which shall be for the unexpired term. Appointments to fill unexpired terms shall not be considered full terms, and such persons shall be eligible to be appointed to two consecutive full terms. No member shall serve for more than two consecutive full terms. A member who serves two consecutive full terms shall be ineligible for reappointment to the district board until the end of an intervening one-year period dating from the expiration of the last of the two consecutive terms. Before requesting the Governor's approval for establishment of any such district, the Board shall consult with the governing body of each county or city that would be included in the district. No county or city shall be included in any such district served by one board unless the local governing body so elects. The district board of any district consisting of two or more counties or cities or combinations of counties and cities shall be considered to be a local board.</p><p>Administrative costs of a district board shall be borne by the participating local governments on the basis of population and case load with equal weight being given to each factor or in such manner as the respective governing bodies provide by agreement.</p><p>In cases in which a district board includes a county, a member of the board of supervisors of such county may be a member of the local board.</p><p>In cases in which a district board includes a city, a member of the council of such city may be a member of the local board, notwithstanding any provision of the charter of any city in force on March 4, 1971.</p><p>Code 1950, § 63-51; 1952, c. 409; 1956, c. 126; 1968, cc. 578, 584, § 63.1-44; 1970, c. 465; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 138; 1973, c. 201; 1980, cc. 377, 383; 1989, c. 356; 1992, c. 169; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0481'>481</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>.</p>