# § 32.1-276.5 Providers to submit data; civil penalty.

<p>A. Every health care provider shall submit data as required pursuant to regulations of the Board, consistent with the recommendations of the nonprofit organization in its strategic plans submitted and approved pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-276.4/'>32.1-276.4</a>, and as required by this section. Such data shall include relevant data and information for any parent or subsidiary company of the health care provider that operates in the Commonwealth. Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 38 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3800/'>2.2-3800</a> et seq.) of Title 2.2, it shall be lawful to provide information in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>B. In addition, health maintenance organizations shall annually submit to the Commissioner, to make available to consumers who make health benefit enrollment decisions, audited data consistent with the latest version of the Health Employer Data and Information Set (HEDIS), as required by the National Committee for Quality Assurance, or any other quality of care or performance information set as approved by the Board. The Commissioner, at his discretion, may grant a waiver of the HEDIS or other approved quality of care or performance information set upon a determination by the Commissioner that the health maintenance organization has met Board-approved exemption criteria. The Board shall promulgate regulations to implement the provisions of this section.</p><p>The Commissioner shall also negotiate and contract with a nonprofit organization authorized under § <a href='/vacode/32.1-276.4/'>32.1-276.4</a> for compiling, storing, and making available to consumers the data submitted by health maintenance organizations pursuant to this section. The nonprofit organization shall assist the Board in developing a quality of care or performance information set for such health maintenance organizations and shall, at the Commissioner's discretion, periodically review this information set for its effectiveness.</p><p>C. Every medical care facility as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-3/'>32.1-3</a> that furnishes, conducts, operates, or offers any reviewable service shall report data on utilization of such service to the Commissioner, who shall contract with the nonprofit organization authorized under this chapter to collect and disseminate such data. For purposes of this section, "reviewable service" shall mean inpatient beds, operating rooms, nursing home services, cardiac catheterization, computed tomographic (CT) scanning, stereotactic radiosurgery, lithotripsy, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), magnetic source imaging, medical rehabilitation, neonatal special care, obstetrical services, open heart surgery, positron emission tomographic (PET) scanning, psychiatric services, organ and tissue transplant services, radiation therapy, stereotactic radiotherapy, proton beam therapy, nuclear medicine imaging except for the purpose of nuclear cardiac imaging, and substance abuse treatment.</p><p>Every medical care facility for which a certificate of public need with conditions imposed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-102.4/'>32.1-102.4</a> is issued shall report to the Commissioner data on charity care, as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-102.1/'>32.1-102.1</a>, provided to satisfy a condition of a certificate of public need, including (i) the total amount of such charity care the facility provided to indigent persons; (ii) the number of patients to whom such charity care was provided; (iii) the specific services delivered to patients that are reported as charity care recipients; and (iv) the portion of the total amount of such charity care provided that each service represents. The value of charity care reported shall be based on the medical care facility's submission of applicable Diagnosis Related Group codes and Current Procedural Terminology codes aligned with methodology utilized by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for reimbursement under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1395 et seq. Notwithstanding the foregoing, every nursing home as defined in § <a href='/vacode/32.1-123/'>32.1-123</a> for which a certificate of public need with conditions imposed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-102.4/'>32.1-102.4</a> is issued shall report data on utilization and other data in accordance with regulations of the Board.</p><p>A medical care facility that fails to report data required by this subsection shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $100 per day per violation, which shall be collected by the Commissioner and paid into the Literary Fund.</p><p>D. Every continuing care retirement community established pursuant to Chapter 49 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4900/'>38.2-4900</a> et seq.) of Title 38.2 that includes nursing home beds shall report data on utilization of such nursing home beds to the Commissioner, who shall contract with the nonprofit organization authorized under this chapter to collect and disseminate such data.</p><p>E. Every hospital that receives a disproportionate share hospital adjustment pursuant to § 1886(d)(5)(F) of the Social Security Act shall report, in accordance with regulations of the Board consistent with recommendations of the nonprofit organization in its strategic plan submitted and provided pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-276.4/'>32.1-276.4</a>, the number of inpatient days attributed to patients eligible for Medicaid but not Medicare Part A and the total amount of the disproportionate share hospital adjustment received.</p><p>F. Every hospital shall annually report, in accordance with regulations of the Board consistent with recommendations of the nonprofit organization in its strategic plan submitted and provided pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-276.4/'>32.1-276.4</a>, data and information regarding (i) the amount of charity care, discounted care, or other financial assistance provided by the hospital under its financial assistance policy pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/32.1-137.09/'>32.1-137.09</a> and (ii) the amount of uncollected bad debt, including any uncollected bad debt from payment plans entered into in accordance with subsection C of § <a href='/vacode/32.1-137.09/'>32.1-137.09</a>.</p><p>G. The Board shall evaluate biennially the impact and effectiveness of such data collection.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0902'>902</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0897'>897</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0426'>426</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0175'>175</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0515'>515</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0791'>791</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0596'>596</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1271'>1271</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0678'>678</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0679'>679</a>.</p>