# § 24.2-955.1 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advertisement" means any message appearing in the print media, on television, on radio, or on an online platform, that constitutes a contribution or expenditure under Chapter 9.3 (§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-945/'>24.2-945</a> et seq.). "Advertisement" shall not include novelty items authorized by a candidate including, but not limited to, pens, pencils, magnets, and buttons to be attached to wearing apparel.</p><p>"Authorized by ______" means the same as "authorization" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-945.1/'>24.2-945.1</a>. </p><p>"Campaign telephone calls" means a series of telephone calls or text messages, electronic or otherwise, made (i) to 25 or more telephone numbers in the Commonwealth, (ii) during the 180 days before a general or special election or during the 90 days before a primary or other political party nominating event, (iii) conveying or soliciting information relating to any candidate or political party participating in the election, primary or other nominating event, and (iv) under an agreement to compensate the telephone callers.</p><p>"Candidate" means "candidate" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-101/'>24.2-101</a>.</p><p>"Candidate campaign committee" or "campaign committee" means "campaign committee" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-945.1/'>24.2-945.1</a>.</p><p>"Coordinated" or "coordination" means an expenditure that is made (i) at the express request or suggestion of a candidate, a candidate's campaign committee, or an agent of the candidate or his campaign committee or (ii) with material involvement of the candidate, a candidate's campaign committee, or an agent of the candidate or his campaign committee in devising the strategy, content, means of dissemination, or timing of the expenditure.</p><p>"Conspicuous" means so written, displayed, or communicated that a reasonable person ought to have noticed it.</p><p>"Full-screen" means the only picture appearing on the television screen during the oral disclosure statement that (i) contains the disclosing person, (ii) occupies all visible space on the television screen, and (iii) contains the image of the disclosing person that occupies at least 50% of the vertical height of the television screen.</p><p>"Independent expenditure" means "independent expenditure" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-945.1/'>24.2-945.1</a>.</p><p>"Name of candidate" means (i) the full name of the candidate as it appears on the statement of qualification filed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/24.2-501/'>24.2-501</a> or as it will appear on the ballot or (ii) the first name, middle name, or "nickname" of the candidate as it appears on his statement of qualification and a last name of the candidate as it appears on his statement of qualification.</p><p>"Occurrence" means one broadcast of a radio or television political campaign advertisement.</p><p>"Online platform" means any public-facing website, web application, or digital application, including a social network, ad network, or search engine, that sells advertisements.</p><p>"Online political advertisement" means an advertisement that is placed or promoted for a fee on an online platform.</p><p>"Online political advertiser" means any person who purchases an advertisement from an online platform or promotes an advertisement on an online platform for a fee.</p><p>"Political action committee" means "political action committee" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-945.1/'>24.2-945.1</a>.</p><p>"Political committee" means "political committee" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-945.1/'>24.2-945.1</a>.</p><p>"Political party" has the same meaning as "party" or "political party" as defined in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-101/'>24.2-101</a>.</p><p>"Political party committee" means any state political party committee, congressional district political party committee, county or city political party committee, or organized political party group of elected officials. The term shall not include any other organization or auxiliary associated with or using the name of a political party.</p><p>"Print media" means billboards, cards, newspapers, newspaper inserts, magazines, printed material disseminated through the mail, pamphlets, fliers, bumper stickers, periodicals, websites, electronic mail, non-video or non-audio messages placed or promoted for a fee on an online platform, yard signs, and outdoor advertising facilities. If a single print media advertisement consists of multiple pages, folds, or faces, the disclosure requirement of this section applies only to one page, fold, or face.</p><p>"Radio" means any radio broadcast station that is subject to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 315 and 317.</p><p>"Scan line" means a standard term of measurement used in the electronic media industry calculating a certain area in a television advertisement.</p><p>"Sponsor" means a candidate, candidate campaign committee, political committee, or person that purchases an advertisement.</p><p>"Telephone call" means any single telephone call or text message, electronic or otherwise, that when combined with other telephone calls or text messages constitutes campaign telephone calls.</p><p>"Television" means any television broadcast station, cable television system, wireless-cable multipoint distribution system, satellite company, or telephone company transmitting video programming that is subject to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 315 and 317.</p><p>"Unobscured" means that the only printed material that may appear on the television screen is a visual disclosure statement required by law, and that nothing is blocking the view of the disclosing person's face.</p><p>"Yard sign" means a sign paid for or distributed by a candidate, campaign committee, or political committee to be placed on public or private property. Yard signs paid for or distributed prior to July 1, 2015, shall not be subject to the provisions of §§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-956/'>24.2-956</a> and <a href='/vacode/24.2-956.1/'>24.2-956.1</a>.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>, § 24.2-942; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0237'>237</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0787'>787</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0892'>892</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0573'>573</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0554'>554</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0615'>615</a>.</p>