# ยง 32.1-126.02 Hospital pharmacy employees; criminal records check required.

<p>A. A licensed hospital shall obtain, within sixty days of employment of any compensated employee of the hospital whose duties will provide access to controlled substances as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3401/'>54.1-3401</a> within the hospital pharmacy, who is not licensed by the Board of Pharmacy, an original criminal history record information from the Central Criminal Records Exchange. The cost of obtaining the criminal history record information shall be borne by the hospital.</p><p>Any person applying to work in a hospital whose duties will provide access to controlled substances as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3401/'>54.1-3401</a> within the hospital pharmacy, who is not licensed by the Board of Pharmacy, shall provide the hiring facility with a sworn statement or affirmation disclosing any criminal convictions or any pending criminal charges, whether within or without the Commonwealth. Any person making a materially false statement when providing such sworn statement or affirmation shall be guilty upon conviction of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Further dissemination of the information provided pursuant to this section is prohibited other than to a federal or state authority or court as may be required to comply with an express requirement of law for such further dissemination.</p><p>The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the Commissioner. If an individual is denied or terminated from employment because of convictions appearing on his criminal history record, the hospital shall provide, upon the written request of the individual, a copy of the information obtained from the Central Criminal Records Exchange to the individual.</p><p>B. A person who complies in good faith with the provisions of this section shall not be liable for any civil damages for any act or omission in the performance of duties under this section unless the act or omission was the result of gross negligence or willful misconduct.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0428'>428</a>.</p>