# ยง 51.1-816 Reduction of pension and benefits where income earned during disability retirement.

<p>If any person receives a disability pension or benefit under this article and subsequently becomes employed, whether full time or part time, the pensions and benefits received shall be reduced by the amount of income received which exceeds the difference between the benefits received under this section and the amount of pay to which the member would have been entitled had the member's employment progressed in the same rank and grade with credit for the level of seniority the member would have attained had the member not been disabled. The reduction shall continue until the member would have been eligible for normal retirement, based on age and service, had the member remained uninjured and employed. For the purposes of this section, "income" means gross income received less deductions for social security taxes only.</p><p>Any person receiving pensions or benefits under the provisions of this section shall upon request, on or before May 1 of each year, provide a copy of all W-2 forms showing income received, or a statement under oath as to whether the member has received compensation for work performed in the previous calendar year, to the governing body of the jurisdiction providing this pension. Refusal to provide such documents shall be grounds for termination of benefits under this section until such documents are produced. Production of the documents shall be required until the person would have been eligible for normal retirement had the member remained uninjured.</p><p>Nothing contained in this section shall limit or restrict the right of any person to receive Workers' Compensation benefits under Title 65.2.</p><p>1983, c. 351, ยง 51-122.3; 1990, c. 832.</p>