# ยง 10.1-1426 Permits required; waiver of requirements; reports; conditional permits.

<p>A. No person shall store, provide treatment for, or dispose of a hazardous waste without a permit from the Director.</p><p>B. Any person generating, transporting, storing, providing treatment for, or disposing of a hazardous waste shall report to the Director, by such date as the Board specifies by regulation, the following: (i) his name and address, (ii) the name and nature of the hazardous waste, and (iii) the fact that he is generating, transporting, storing, providing treatment for or disposing of a hazardous waste. A person who is an exempt small quantity generator of hazardous wastes, as defined by the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall be exempt from the requirements of this subsection.</p><p>C. Any permit shall contain the conditions or requirements required by the Board's regulations and the federal acts.</p><p>D. Upon the issuance of an emergency permit for the storage of hazardous waste, the Director shall notify the chief administrative officer of the local government for the jurisdiction in which the permit has been issued.</p><p>E. The Director may deny an application under this article on any grounds for which a permit may be amended, suspended or revoked listed under subsection A of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1427/'>10.1-1427</a>.</p><p>F. Any locality or state agency may collect hazardous waste from exempt small quantity generators for shipment to a permitted treatment or disposal facility if done in accordance with (i) a permit to store, treat, or dispose of hazardous waste issued pursuant to this chapter or (ii) a permit to transport hazardous waste, and the wastes collected are stored for no more than 10 days prior to shipment to a permitted treatment or disposal facility. If household hazardous waste is collected and managed with hazardous wastes collected from exempt small quantity generators, all waste shall be managed in accordance with the provisions of this subsection.</p><p>1986, cc. 492, 563, ยง 10-279; 1988, c. 891; 1992, c. 463; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0442'>442</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0139'>139</a>.</p>