# ยง 2.2-3704.3 Training for local officials.

<p>A. The Virginia Freedom of Information Advisory Council (the Council) or the local government attorney shall provide in-person or online training sessions for local elected officials and the executive directors and members of industrial development authorities and economic development authorities, as created by the Industrial Development and Revenue Bond Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-4900/'>15.2-4900</a> et seq.), on the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>B. Each local elected official and the executive director and members of each industrial development authority and economic development authority, as created by the Industrial Development and Revenue Bond Act, shall complete a training session described in subsection A within two months after assuming the local elected office and thereafter at least once during each consecutive period of two calendar years commencing with the date on which he last completed a training session, for as long as he holds such office. No penalty shall be imposed on a local elected official or an executive director or member of an industrial development authority or an economic development authority for failing to complete a training session.</p><p>C. The clerk of each governing body or school board shall maintain records indicating the names of elected officials and executive directors and members of industrial development authorities and economic development authorities subject to the training requirements in subsection B and the dates on which each such official completed training sessions satisfying such requirements. Such records shall be maintained for five years in the office of the clerk of the respective governing body or school board.</p><p>D. For purposes of this section, "local elected officials" shall include constitutional officers.</p><p>2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0531'>531</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0076'>76</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0080'>80</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0904'>904</a>.</p>