# § 24.2-452 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>1. "Covered voter" means:</p><p>a. A uniformed-service voter or an overseas voter who is registered to vote in this state;</p><p>b. A uniformed-service voter defined in subdivision 9 a whose voting residence is in this state and who otherwise satisfies this state's voter eligibility requirements;</p><p>c. An overseas voter who, before leaving the United States, was last eligible to vote in this state and, except for a state residency requirement, otherwise satisfies this state's voter eligibility requirements;</p><p>d. An overseas voter who, before leaving the United States, would have been last eligible to vote in this state had the voter then been of voting age and, except for a state residency requirement, otherwise satisfies this state's voter eligibility requirements; or</p><p>e. An overseas voter who was born outside the United States, is not described in subdivision c or d, and, except for a state residency requirement, otherwise satisfies this state's voter eligibility requirements, if:</p><p>(1) The last place where a parent or legal guardian of the voter was, or under this chapter would have been, eligible to vote before leaving the United States is within this state; and</p><p>(2) The voter has not previously registered to vote in any other state.</p><p>2. "Dependent" means an individual recognized as a dependent by a uniformed service.</p><p>3. "Federal postcard application" means the application prescribed under § 101(b)(2) of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. § 20301(b)(2).</p><p>4. "Federal write-in absentee ballot" means the ballot described in § 103 of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. § 20303, that may be used in all elections in which the voter is eligible to vote as provided in § <a href='/vacode/24.2-702.1/'>24.2-702.1</a>.</p><p>5. "Military-overseas ballot" means:</p><p>a. A federal write-in absentee ballot;</p><p>b. A ballot specifically prepared or distributed for use by a covered voter in accordance with this title; or</p><p>c. A ballot cast by a covered voter in accordance with this title.</p><p>6. "Overseas voter" means a United States citizen who is outside the United States.</p><p>7. "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.</p><p>8. "Uniformed service" means:</p><p>a. Active and reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard of the United States;</p><p>b. The Merchant Marine, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, or the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the United States; or</p><p>c. The Virginia National Guard.</p><p>9. "Uniformed-service voter" means an individual who is qualified to vote and is:</p><p>a. A member of the active or reserve components of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard of the United States who is on active duty;</p><p>b. A member of the Merchant Marine, the commissioned corps of the Public Health Service, or the commissioned corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the United States;</p><p>c. A member on activated status of the National Guard; or</p><p>d. A spouse or dependent of a member referred to in this definition.</p><p>10. "United States," used in the territorial sense, means the several states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, and any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.</p><p>2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0353'>353</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0313'>313</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0668'>668</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0669'>669</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1149'>1149</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1151'>1151</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1201'>1201</a>.</p>