# § 6.2-300 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:</p><p>"Bank" means any national bank, any bank organized under Chapter 8 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-800/'>6.2-800</a> et seq.), or any bank incorporated and organized under the laws of another state.</p><p>"Credit union" means any credit union organized under Chapter 13 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1300/'>6.2-1300</a> et seq.) or any credit union incorporated and organized under the laws of another state. "Credit union" shall not include any federal credit union.</p><p>"First deed of trust" or "first mortgage" includes all deeds of trust and mortgages, and amendments thereto, that are made by the same grantor or mortgagor, secure notes held by the same holder, convey substantially the same real estate, and are superior to all other deeds of trust or mortgages on the real estate.</p><p>"Grantor" or "mortgagor" includes an owner of real estate, and spouse, who has assumed responsibility for the obligation secured by a mortgage or deed of trust encumbering the real estate.</p><p>"Loan" means a loan or forbearance of money.</p><p>"Open-end credit" or "open-end credit plan" means consumer credit extended by a creditor under a plan in which: (i) the creditor reasonably contemplates repeated transactions; (ii) the creditor may impose a finance charge from time to time on an outstanding unpaid balance; and (iii) the amount of credit that may be extended to the consumer during the term of the plan, up to any limit set by the creditor, is generally made available to the extent that any outstanding balance is repaid.</p><p>"Savings institution" means any savings institution, as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1100/'>6.2-1100</a>, incorporated and organized under the laws of the United States, the Commonwealth, or another state.</p><p>"Subordinate mortgage or deed of trust" means a mortgage or deed of trust that is subject to a prior mortgage or deed of trust in existence at the time of the making of the loan secured by such subordinate mortgage or deed of trust.</p><p>1987, c. 622, §§ 6.1-330.49, 6.1-330.69, 6.1-330.71; 1991, c. 157; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0243'>243</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>