# ยง 36-85.19 License required; penalty.

<p>A. It shall be unlawful and constitute the commission of a Class 1 misdemeanor for any manufactured home manufacturer, dealer, broker, or salesperson to be engaged in business as such in this Commonwealth without first obtaining a license from the Board, as provided in this chapter.</p><p>Application for such license shall be made to the Board at such time, in such form, and contain such information as the Board shall require, and shall be accompanied by required fees established by the Board by regulation in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). The Board shall levy and collect fees that are sufficient to cover the expenses for the administration of this chapter by the Board and the Department. Such fees may be levied and collected on a per unit sold basis, a percentage basis, an annual per dealer basis, or a combination thereof.</p><p>In such application, the Board shall require information relating to the matters set forth in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-85.20/'>36-85.20</a> as grounds for refusal of a license, and information relating to other pertinent matters consistent with safeguarding the public interest. All such information shall be considered by the Board in determining the fitness of the applicant to engage in the business for which the license is sought.</p><p>All licenses that are granted shall expire, unless revoked or suspended, on the annual anniversary of the date of issuance.</p><p>Every regulant under this chapter shall obtain a renewal of a license for the ensuing year, by application, accompanied by the required fee. Upon failure to renew, the license shall automatically expire. Such license may be renewed upon payment of the prescribed renewal fee and upon evidence satisfactory to the Board that the applicant has not engaged in business as a manufactured home manufacturer, dealer, broker, or salesperson after expiration of the license and is otherwise eligible for a license under the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>Special licenses, not to exceed ten days in duration, may be issued for each temporary place of business, operated or proposed by the regulant, that is not contiguous to other premises for which a license is issued. The fee for a special license shall be established by the Board, provided that no such license shall be required for a place of business operated by a regulant that is used exclusively for storage.</p><p>B. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the Board may provide by regulation that a manufactured home salesperson will be allowed to engage in business during the time period after applying for a license but before such license is granted.</p><p>1991, c. 555; 1992, c. 223; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0671'>671</a>.</p>