# ยง 51.5-116 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Case management" means a dynamic collaborative process that utilizes and builds on the strengths and resources of consumers to assist them in identifying their needs, accessing and coordinating services, and achieving their goals. The major collaborative components of case management services include advocacy, assessment, planning, facilitation, coordination, and monitoring.</p><p>"Case management system" means a central point of contact linking a wide variety of evolving services and supports that are (i) available in a timely, coordinated manner; (ii) physically and programmatically accessible; and (iii) consumer-directed with procedural safeguards to ensure responsiveness and accountability.</p><p>"Client" means any person receiving a service provided by the personnel or facilities of a public or private agency, whether referred to as a client, participant, patient, resident, or other term.</p><p>"Commissioner" means the Commissioner for Aging and Rehabilitative Services.</p><p>"Consumer" means, with respect to case management services, a person with a disability or his designee, guardian, conservator, or committee.</p><p>"Department" means the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services.</p><p>"Employment services organization" means an organization that provides employment services to individuals with disabilities that is an approved Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF) accredited vendor of the Department.</p><p>"Local board" means a local board of social services established pursuant to Article 1 (ยง <a href='/vacode/63.2-300/'>63.2-300</a> et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 63.2.</p><p>"Local department" means a local department of social services established pursuant to Article 2 (ยง <a href='/vacode/63.2-324/'>63.2-324</a> et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 63.2.</p><p>"Local director" means a local director of social services appointed pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/63.2-325/'>63.2-325</a>.</p><p>"Older person" or "older Virginian" means a person who is age 60 years or older.</p><p>"Physical or sensory disability" means a disability resulting in functional impairment or impairment of the central nervous system, which may include but is not limited to brain injury, spinal cord injury, cerebral palsy, arthritis, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, Prader-Willi syndrome, and systemic lupus erythematosus (lupus).</p><p>"Prader-Willi syndrome" means a specific disorder that is usually caused by chromosomal change, resulting in lifelong functional and cognitive impairments and life-threatening obesity.</p><p>"Rehabilitation technology" means the systematic application of technologies, engineering methodologies, or scientific principles to meet the needs of and address the barriers confronted by individuals with disabilities in areas that include education, rehabilitation, employment, transportation, independent living, and recreation.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0289'>289</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0243'>243</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0377'>377</a>.</p>