# ยง 3.2-6557 Animal control officers and humane investigators; limitations; records; penalties.

<p>A. No animal control officer, humane investigator, humane society, or custodian of any public or private animal shelter shall (i) obtain the release or transfer of an animal by the animal's owner to such animal control officer, humane investigator, humane society, or custodian for personal gain or (ii) give or sell or negotiate for the gift or sale to any individual, pet shop, dealer, or research facility of any animal that may come into his custody in the course of carrying out his official assignments. No animal control officer, humane investigator, or custodian of any public or private animal shelter shall be granted a dealer's license. Violation of this subsection is a Class 1 misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall preclude any animal control officer or humane investigator from lawfully impounding any animal pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-6569/'>3.2-6569</a>.</p><p>B. An animal control officer, law-enforcement officer, humane investigator, or custodian of any public or private animal shelter, upon taking custody of any animal in the course of his official duties, or any representative of a humane society, upon obtaining custody of any animal on behalf of the society, shall immediately make a record of the matter. Such record shall include:</p><p>1. The date on which the animal was taken into custody;</p><p>2. The date of the making of the record;</p><p>3. A description of the animal, including the animal's species, color, breed, sex, approximate age, and approximate weight;</p><p>4. The reason for taking custody of the animal and the location where custody was taken;</p><p>5. The name and address of the animal's owner, if known;</p><p>6. Any license or rabies tag, tattoo, collar, or other identification number carried by or appearing on the animal; and</p><p>7. The disposition of the animal.</p><p>Records required by this subsection shall be maintained for at least five years and shall be available for public inspection upon request. A summary of such records shall be submitted annually to the State Veterinarian in a format prescribed by him.</p><p>C. Any animal control officer, law-enforcement officer, humane investigator, or custodian of any public or private animal shelter who takes custody of animals in the course of his official duties or representative of a humane society who takes custody of animals on behalf of the society shall annually file with the State Veterinarian a copy of his intake policy.</p><p>D. Any animal control officer or custodian of any public animal shelter who violates any provision of this chapter that relates to the seizure, impoundment, and custody of animals by an animal control officer may be subject to suspension or dismissal from his position.</p><p>E. Custodians and animal control officers engaged in the operation of a public animal shelter shall be required to have knowledge of the laws of the Commonwealth governing animals, including this chapter, as well as basic animal care.</p><p>1984, c. 492, ยง 29-213.74; 1986, c. 315; 1987, c. 488, ยง 3.1-796.105; 1991, c. 65; 1993, c. 601; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0286'>286</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0817'>817</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0148'>148</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0678'>678</a>.</p>