# § 36-55.39 Procedure prior to financing of housing developments undertaken by housing sponsors.

<p>A. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, HDA is not empowered to finance any housing development undertaken by a housing sponsor pursuant to §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-55.31/'>36-55.31</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-55.33:1/'>36-55.33:1</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-55.34:1/'>36-55.34:1</a> of this chapter unless, prior to the financing of any housing development hereunder, the commissioners or the executive director of HDA find:</p><p>1. That there exists a shortage of decent, safe and sanitary housing at rentals or prices which persons and families of low income or moderate income can afford within the general housing market area to be served by the proposed housing development.</p><p>2. That private enterprise and investment have been unable, without assistance, to provide the needed decent, safe and sanitary housing at rentals or prices which persons or families of low and moderate income can afford or to provide sufficient mortgage financing for residential housing for occupancy by such persons or families.</p><p>3. That the housing sponsor or sponsors undertaking the proposed housing development in the Commonwealth will supply well-planned, well-designed housing for persons or families of low and moderate income and, in the case of an economically mixed project, other persons and families and that such sponsors are financially responsible.</p><p>4. That the housing development, to be assisted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, will be of public use and will provide a public benefit.</p><p>5. That the housing development will be undertaken within the authority conferred by this chapter upon HDA and the housing sponsor or sponsors.</p><p>B. The locality, upon written request from the housing sponsor, shall provide a written staff determination that the proposed development is consistent with current zoning and other land use regulations in effect at the time of such request. Failure of the locality to comply with this subsection within 30 days of the receipt of the written request from the housing sponsor shall be deemed to be a determination that the proposed development is consistent with current zoning and other land use regulations. Prior to financing by the HDA, the housing sponsor shall provide the HDA with (i) a copy of the written staff determination received from the locality, (ii) a written certification that the locality failed to respond to the housing sponsor's request within 30 days as provided herein, or (iii) a copy of any building permit issued by the locality.</p><p>1972, c. 830; 1975, c. 536; 1978, c. 297; 1982, c. 175; 1990, c. 461; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0215'>215</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0560'>560</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0684'>684</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0187'>187</a>.</p>