# § 24.2-511 Party chairman or official to certify candidates to State Board and general registrars; failure to certify.

<p>A. The state, district, or other appropriate party chairman shall certify the name of any candidate who has been nominated by his party by a method other than a primary for any office to be elected by the qualified voters of (i) the Commonwealth at large, (ii) a congressional district or a General Assembly district, or (iii) political subdivisions jointly electing a shared constitutional officer, along with the date of the nomination of the candidate, to the State Board not later than five days after the last day for nominations to be made. The State Board shall notify the general registrars of the names of the candidates to appear on the ballot for such offices.</p><p>B. The party chairman of the district or political subdivision in which any other office is to be filled shall certify the name of any candidate for that office who has been nominated by his party by a method other than a primary to the State Board and to the general registrars of the cities and counties in which the name of the candidate will appear on the ballot not later than five days after the last day for nominations to be made. Should the party chairman fail to make such certification, the State Board shall declare that the candidate is the nominee of the particular party and direct that his name be treated as if certified by the party chairman.</p><p>C. In the case of a nomination for any office to be filled by a special election, the party chairman shall certify the name of any candidate (i) by the deadline to nominate the candidate or (ii) not later than five days after the deadline if it is a special election held at the second November election after the vacancy occurred.</p><p>D. No further notice of candidacy or petition shall be required of a candidate once the party chairman has certified his name to the State Board.</p><p>E. In no case shall the individual who is a candidate for an office be the person who certifies the name of the party candidate for that same office. In such case the party shall designate an alternate official to certify its candidate.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 24-134, 24-345.3; 1952, c. 509; 1954, c. 523; 1956, Ex. Sess., c. 1; 1958, c. 309; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 17; 1960, c. 383; 1962, c. 536; 1964, c. 539; 1970, c. 462, § 24.1-169; 1972, c. 620; 1978, c. 778; 1982, c. 650; 1993, c. 641; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0083'>83</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0473'>473</a>; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0018'>18</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0492'>492</a>.</p>