# ยง 15.2-412 Local board of social services and local director of social services.

<p>The board of county supervisors shall select three qualified citizens of the county, one of whom may be a member of the board of county supervisors, who shall constitute the local board of social services; alternatively, the board of county supervisors may choose a board of social services consisting of five qualified citizens. Such board shall, insofar as not inconsistent with this form of county organization and government, exercise all the powers conferred, and perform all the duties imposed, upon local boards of social services by law. There also shall be a local director of social services who shall be chosen by the board of county supervisors, or by the local board of social services if the board of county supervisors so provides, from a list of eligibles furnished by the Director of the Department of Social Services. He shall, insofar as consistent with this form of county organization and government, exercise the powers conferred and perform the duties imposed upon local directors of social services by general law. The local board of social services and the local director of social services shall also perform such other duties as required by the board of county supervisors.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-374; 1950, p. 696; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-710; 1968, c. 80; 1974, cc. 44, 45; 1997, c. 587; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0349'>349</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0436'>436</a>.</p>