# ยง 13.1-317 Filing and recording articles of incorporation.

<p>(a) Triplicate originals of the articles of incorporation, duly signed and acknowledged together with the filing fee required to be paid, shall be delivered to the Commission. If the Commission finds that the articles comply with the requirements of law and that all required fees have been paid, it shall by order issue a certificate of incorporation, which shall be admitted to record in its office. Upon the issuance of such certificate, it shall become effective in accordance with its terms. One original counterpart of the articles of incorporation, together with the certificate of incorporation issued by the Commission, shall be certified by the Commission to the Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services for filing and another counterpart shall be certified to the Director of the State Agricultural Extension Division for filing.</p><p>(b) For filing and recording the certificate of incorporation, an amendment to the certificate of incorporation, or a certificate of adoption, the association shall pay such fees as conform to the laws governing corporations generally. However, for filing the certificate of incorporation of an association organized without capital stock, the association shall pay ten dollars and for filing an amendment to the certificate of incorporation, two dollars and one-half. For certifying and transmitting copies as required by this section, the association shall pay a fee of one dollar per copy.</p><p>1956, c. 428.</p>