# ยง 15.2-6301 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context or subject matter requires otherwise:</p><p>"Adjacent to such authority" includes real or personal property which is contiguous, neighboring, or within reasonable proximity of an authority.</p><p>"Area of operation" means an area coextensive with the territorial boundaries of the land acquired from the federal government by the authority.</p><p>"Authority" means any political subdivision created by this chapter. The terms "an authority" or "the authority" refer to each such authority.</p><p>"Bonds" means any bonds, notes, interim certificates, debentures, or other obligations issued by an authority pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Commissioners" means the members of the board of commissioners of an authority.</p><p>"Facility" means a particular building or structure or particular buildings or structures, including all equipment, appurtenances and accessories necessary or appropriate for the operation of such facility.</p><p>"Federal area" means an area coextensive with the territorial boundaries that is, or has been, occupied by a United States governmental activity or operation.</p><p>"Federal government" includes the United States of America, or any department, agency or instrumentality, corporate or otherwise, of the United States of America.</p><p>"Former federal area" means an area coextensive with the territorial boundaries that is, or has been, occupied by a United States governmental military installation and which is, or appears likely to be, subject to disposal by the United States government to public bodies, or otherwise.</p><p>"Obligee of the authority" or "obligee" includes any bondholder, trustee or trustees for any bondholders, and the federal government when it is a party to any contract with the authority.</p><p>"Project" means any specific enterprise undertaken by an authority, including the facilities as hereinafter defined, and all other property, real or personal or any interest therein, necessary or appropriate for the operation of such property.</p><p>"Public body of the Commonwealth" means any city, town, county, municipal corporation, commission, district, authority, other political subdivision or public body of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Real property" means all lands, including improvements and fixtures thereon, and property of any nature appurtenant thereto, or used in connection therewith, and every estate, interest and right, legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years and liens by way of judgment, mortgage, or otherwise and the indebtedness secured by such liens.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-938; 1954, c. 645; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-1321; 1997, c. 587; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0839'>839</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0869'>869</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0887'>887</a>.</p>