# § 63.2-921 Voluntary continuing services and support agreement; services provided; service worker; duties.

<p>A. In order to participate in the Fostering Futures program, the eligible program participant shall enter into a written voluntary continuing services and support agreement with the local department. Such agreement shall include, at a minimum, the following:</p><p>1. A requirement that the program participant maintain eligibility to participate in the Fostering Futures program in accordance with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/63.2-919/'>63.2-919</a> for the duration of the voluntary continuing services and support agreement;</p><p>2. A disclosure to the program participant that participation in the Fostering Futures program is voluntary and that the program participant may terminate the voluntary continuing services and support agreement at any time;</p><p>3. The specific conditions that may result in the termination of the voluntary continuing services and support agreement and the program participant's early discharge from the Fostering Futures program; and</p><p>4. The program participant's right to appeal the denial or delay of a service required in the case plan.</p><p>B. The services and support to be provided to the program participant pursuant to the voluntary continuing services and support agreement shall begin no later than 30 days after both the program participant and the local department sign the voluntary continuing services and support agreement in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/63.2-921/'>63.2-921</a>.</p><p>C. The local department shall assign a service worker for each participant in the Fostering Futures program to provide case management services. Every service worker shall have specialized training in providing transition services and support for program participants and knowledge of resources available in the community.</p><p>D. The local department shall make continuing efforts to achieve permanency and create permanent connections for all program participants.</p><p>E. The local department shall fulfill all case plan obligations consistent with the applicable provisions of 42 U.S.C. § 675(1) for all program participants.</p><p>F. Upon the signing of the voluntary continuing services and support agreement by the program participant and the local department, the local department shall conduct a redetermination of income eligibility for purposes of Title IV-E of the federal Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. § 672.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0095'>95</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0732'>732</a>.</p>