# § 54.1-1500 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Audiologist" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2600/'>54.1-2600</a>.</p><p>"Board" means the Board for Hearing Aid Specialists and Opticians.</p><p>"Hearing aid" means any wearable instrument or device designed or offered to aid or compensate for impaired human hearing and any parts, attachments, or accessories, including earmolds, but excluding batteries and cords.</p><p>"Licensed hearing aid specialist" means any person who is the holder of a hearing aid specialist license issued by the Board for Hearing Aid Specialists and Opticians.</p><p>"Licensed optician" means any person who is the holder of an optician license issued by the Board for Hearing Aid Specialists and Opticians.</p><p>"Licensed optometrist" means any person authorized by Virginia law to practice optometry.</p><p>"Licensed physician" means any person licensed by the Board of Medicine to practice medicine and surgery.</p><p>"Optician" means any person not exempted by § <a href='/vacode/54.1-1506/'>54.1-1506</a> who prepares or dispenses eyeglasses, spectacles, lenses, or related appurtenances, for the intended wearers or users, on prescriptions from licensed physicians or licensed optometrists, or as duplications or reproductions of previously prepared eyeglasses, spectacles, lenses, or related appurtenances; or who, in accordance with such prescriptions, duplications or reproductions, measures, adapts, fits, and adjusts eyeglasses, spectacles, lenses, or appurtenances, to the human face.</p><p>"Practice of audiology" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2600/'>54.1-2600</a>.</p><p>"Practice of fitting or dealing in hearing aids" means (i) the measurement of human hearing by means of an audiometer or by any other means solely for the purpose of making selections, adaptations or sale of hearing aids, (ii) the sale of hearing aids, or (iii) the making of impressions for earmolds. A practitioner, at the request of a physician or a member of a related profession, may make audiograms for the professional's use in consultation with the hard-of-hearing.</p><p>"Sell" or "sale" means any transfer of title or of the right to use by lease, bailment, or any other contract, excluding wholesale transactions with distributors or practitioners.</p><p>"Temporary permit" means a permit issued while an applicant is in training to become a licensed hearing aid specialist.</p><p>1970, c. 571, § 54-524.110; 1988, c. 765; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0599'>599</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0458'>458</a>.</p>