# § 45.2-1027  Judicial review of final order or decision or decision under § 45.2-1035.

<p>A. Any party aggrieved by a final order, decision, or decision for entry upon property pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/45.2-1035/'>45.2-1035</a>, issued by the Director, after exhaustion of the administrative remedies provided for in this chapter, has the right to the judicial review thereof in the circuit court of the county or city in which the land at issue or a major portion thereof is located. In all other respects, judicial review shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>B. The commencement of a proceeding under this section shall not, unless specifically ordered by the court, operate as a stay of the order or decision of the Director. The court may, under such conditions as it prescribes, grant such temporary relief as it deems appropriate pending final determination of the proceedings if:</p><p>1. All parties to the proceedings have been notified and given an opportunity to be heard on a request for temporary relief;</p><p>2. The person requesting such relief shows that there is a substantial likelihood that he will prevail on the merits of the final determination of the proceeding; and</p><p>3. Such relief will not adversely affect the public health or safety or cause significant imminent environmental harm to land, air, or water resources.</p><p>C. The court may award costs and expenses, including attorney fees, to any party to any proceeding under this section and may assess such costs and expenses against any other party as the court deems proper. For the purpose of this subsection, "party" includes the Commonwealth or any of its agents, officers, or employees.</p><p>1979, c. 290, § 45.1-251; 1983, c. 93; 1984, c. 590; 1986, c. 615; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>