# ยง 46.2-490 Establishment of driver improvement clinic program; application fees.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall, in his discretion, contract with such entities as the Commissioner deems fit, including private or governmental entities, to develop curricula for a statewide driver improvement clinic program. Such program shall include instruction concerning but not limited to (i) alcohol and drug abuse, (ii) aggressive driving, (iii) distracted driving, (iv) motorcycle awareness, and (v) work zone safety. The driver improvement clinic program shall be established for the purpose of instructing persons identified by the Department and the court system as problem drivers in need of driver improvement education and training and for those drivers interested in improved driving safety. The clinics shall be composed of uniform education and training programs designed for the rehabilitation of problem drivers, and for the purpose of creating a lasting and corrective influence on their driving performance. The clinics shall operate in localities based on their geographical location so as to be reasonably accessible to persons attending these clinics.</p><p>B. All businesses, organizations, governmental entities or individuals that want to provide driver improvement clinic instruction as a driver improvement clinic or instructor in the Commonwealth using approved curricula shall apply to the Department to be licensed to do so, based on criteria established by the Department. A nonrefundable annual license application fee of $100 shall be paid to the Department by all such businesses, organizations, governmental entities or individuals. A nonrefundable annual license fee of $25 shall also be paid for each additional clinic location operated by a clinic. A nonrefundable annual license fee of $50 shall be paid to the Department by a person applying for a clinic instructor license. However, neither the annual license fee for each additional clinic location nor the annual license fee for a clinic instructor license shall be required of or collected from the Virginia Association of Volunteer Rescue Squads or its members in connection with clinics that are provided for emergency vehicle operation training. All such application fees collected by the Department shall be paid by the Commissioner into the state treasury and shall be set aside as a special fund to be used to meet the expenses of the Department.</p><p>1974, c. 453, ยง 46.1-514.3; 1989, c. 727; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0672'>672</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0177'>177</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0622'>622</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0180'>180</a>.</p>