# ยง 30-85 Commission established; powers and duties.

<p>The Joint Commission on Technology and Science (JCOTS) is hereby established as a permanent legislative agency of the Commonwealth. JCOTS shall generally study all aspects of technology and science and endeavor to stimulate, encourage, promote, and assist in the development of technology and science in the Commonwealth and sound public policies related thereto. In addition, JCOTS shall:</p><p>1. Evaluate the impact of existing statutes and proposed legislation related to technology and science in the Commonwealth;</p><p>2. Advise the General Assembly, Governor, and agencies, authorities, and institutions of the Commonwealth upon matters related to technology and science;</p><p>3. Investigate, research, and consider such issues related to technology and science as may be requested by the General Assembly or determined by JCOTS;</p><p>4. Make recommendations to the General Assembly and the Governor;</p><p>5. Consult with appropriate entities, public or private, on matters related to technology and science under JCOTS' consideration;</p><p>6. Encourage research and development in technology and science;</p><p>7. Solicit input from appropriate entities, public or private, on issues related to technology and science;</p><p>8. Coordinate its efforts with and assist the efforts of other agencies, authorities, and institutions of the Commonwealth;</p><p>9. Accept private or public funds to carry out its purposes; and</p><p>10. Annually report its findings and recommendations to the General Assembly and the Governor. JCOTS shall make such further interim reports to the General Assembly and the Governor as it deems advisable or as required by concurrent resolution of the General Assembly or by the Governor. The chairman of JCOTS shall submit to the General Assembly and the Governor an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of JCOTS no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0847'>847</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0322'>322</a>.</p>