# ยง 6.2-1819 Advertising.

<p>A. No person licensed or required to be licensed under this chapter shall use or cause to be published any advertisement that (i) contains any false, misleading or deceptive statement or representation; or (ii) identifies the person by any name other than the name set forth on the license issued by the Commission.</p><p>B. Any advertising materials used to promote short-term loans that includes the amount of any payment, expressed either as a percentage or dollar amount, or the amount of any finance charge, shall also include a statement of the interest, fees and charges, expressed as an annual percentage rate, payable using examples of a $300 loan repaid in three months, a $500 loan repaid in five months, and a $1,000 loan repaid in 10 months.</p><p>C. In any print media advertisement, including any website, used to promote short-term loans, the disclosure statements described in subsection B shall be conspicuous. "Conspicuous" shall have the meaning set forth in subdivision (a) (14) of ยง <a href='/vacode/59.1-501.2/'>59.1-501.2</a>. If a single advertisement consists of multiple pages, folds, or faces, the disclosure requirement applies only to one page, fold, or face. In a television advertisement used to promote short-term loans, the visual disclosure legend shall include 20 scan lines in size. In a radio advertisement or advertisement communicated by telephone used to promote short-term loans, the disclosure statement shall last at least two seconds and the statement shall be spoken so that its contents may be easily understood.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0897'>897</a>, ยง 6.1-462; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1215'>1215</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1258'>1258</a>.</p>