# ยง 45.2-818  Firefighting equipment; fire prevention.

<p>A. Each mine shall be provided with suitable firefighting equipment that is adequate for the size of the mine.</p><p>B. The following equipment, at a minimum, shall be immediately available at each mine:</p><p>1. A water car filled with water and provided with hose and pump, or waterlines and necessary hoses;</p><p>2. At least three 20-pound dry chemical fire extinguishers;</p><p>3. Ten 50-pound bags of rock dust, which shall be made available at doors or other strategic places;</p><p>4. Bolt cutters that can be used to cut trolley wire in an emergency;</p><p>5. One pair of rubber gloves that shall be used with each pair of bolt cutters when cutting trolley wire;</p><p>6. Two sledge hammers; and</p><p>7. Five hundred square feet of brattice cloth, nails, and a hammer.</p><p>C. Clean, dry sand, rock dust, or fire extinguishers that are suitable from a toxic and shock standpoint shall be placed at each electrical station, including each substation, transformer station, and permanent pump station, so as to be out of the smoke in case of a fire in the station.</p><p>D. Suitable fire extinguishers shall be provided at each (i) electrical station, including each substation, transformer station, and permanent pump station; (ii) piece of self-propelled mobile equipment; (iii) belt head and at the inby end of each belt; (iv) area used for the storage of flammable materials; (v) fueling station; and (vi) any other area that may constitute a fire hazard, so as to be on the fresh air side in case of a fire.</p><p>E. All firefighting equipment and each fire sensor system shall be maintained in a usable and operative condition. Each chemical extinguisher shall be examined every six months and the date of the examination shall be indicated on a tag attached to each extinguisher.</p><p>F. A sufficient number of approved one-hour, self-contained, self-rescuers shall be readily available, not more than 100 feet away, for the persons involved in the moving or transporting of any piece of off-track mining equipment.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-14.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-89; 1974, c. 323; 1978, c. 118; 1984, c. 590; 1985, c. 500; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.200; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0103'>103</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0397'>397</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>