# ยง 55.1-2210 Developer control in time-share estate program.

<p>A. The time-share instrument for a time-share estate program shall provide for a developer control period. All costs associated with the control, management, and operation of the time-share estate project during the developer control period shall belong to the developer, except for time-share estate occupancy expenses that shall, if required by the developer in the time-share instrument, be allocated only to and paid by time-share estate owners other than the developer. Nothing shall preclude the developer, during the developer control period and at any time after the lapse of a purchaser's right of cancellation and without regard to the recordation of the deed, provided that the deed has been delivered to the purchaser or the purchaser's agent, from collecting an annual or specially assessed charge from each time-share estate owner for the payment of the time-share estate occupancy expenses by way of a maintenance fee. However, any such funds received and not spent, or any other funds received and allocated to the benefit of the association, shall be transferred to the association by the developer at the termination of the developer control period.</p><p>B. Except to the extent that the purchase contract or time-share instrument expressly provides otherwise, fee simple title to the common elements shall be transferred to the time-share estate owners' association, free of charge, no later than at such time as the developer (i) transfers to purchasers legal or equitable ownership of at least 90 percent of the time-share estates, excluding any reacquisitions by the developer; (ii) is no longer the beneficiary on deeds of trust secured on at least 20 percent of the time-share estates; or (iii) has completed all of the promised common elements and facilities that the time-share estate project comprises, whichever occurs last. The developer may make such transfer when the period has ended for a phase or portion of the time-share estate project. The transfer required of the developer by this subsection shall not exonerate the developer from the responsibility of completion of the promised and incomplete common elements once the transfer occurs. Upon transfer of the time-share project or portion to the association, the developer control period for such project or portion of such project shall terminate.</p><p>1981, c. 462, ยง 55-369; 1985, c. 517; 1989, c. 637; 1991, c. 704; 1993, c. 842; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0580'>580</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0460'>460</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0543'>543</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0376'>376</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0259'>259</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0327'>327</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>