# § 38.2-3722 Variable interest rate indebtedness; amount; disclosure; refunds.

<p>A. Notwithstanding the terms of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3720/'>38.2-3720</a>, if the credit transaction provides for a variable interest rate and the insurance premiums are calculated and charged on a single premium basis, the initial amount of insurance coverage shall not exceed the scheduled amounts of unpaid indebtedness based upon the initial contract interest rate; and the death benefit shall be equal to the scheduled amount of insurance at the date of death or the amount required to liquidate the indebtedness in accordance with the terms of the contract of indebtedness, whichever is greater. If the actual interest rate charged at any time exceeds the original contract interest rate, the term of the insurance shall continue without additional charge for a period not to exceed three months. No additional premiums shall be charged for any additional coverage provided beyond that included in the single premium charge.</p><p>B. Each individual policy or group certificate of credit insurance issued in connection with credit transactions involving variable interest rates shall include a disclosure (i) that the death benefit shall in no case be less than the insured scheduled amount of coverage or the amount required to liquidate the insured indebtedness in accordance with the terms of the contract of indebtedness, whichever is greater; and (ii) that the term of insurance shall continue for a period not to exceed three months if the actual interest rate charge at any time exceeds the original contract interest rate.</p><p>C. Each individual policy or group certificate of credit insurance issued in connection with credit transactions involving variable interest rates shall provide that in the event of termination of the insurance prior to the original scheduled maturity date of the indebtedness, a refund of any amount paid by the debtor for such insurance shall be made in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3729/'>38.2-3729</a>. Such refund shall be based on the terms of the original loan and the actual elapsed time.</p><p>For a loan with a term of more than sixty-one months, computation of such refund using the actuarial method shall be deemed to comply with the requirements hereof. For a loan with a term of sixty-one months or less, computation of such refund using the Rule of 78 shall be deemed to comply with the requirement hereof.</p><p>1984, c. 664, § 38.1-482.4:2; 1985, c. 234, § 38.2-3705; 1986, c. 562; 1992, c. 586.</p>