# § 60.2-305 Requisition or use of money credited to Commonwealth in Unemployment Trust Fund.

<p>A. 1. Money credited to the account of this Commonwealth in the Unemployment Trust Fund by the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States, pursuant to § 903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 1103), may not be requisitioned from this Commonwealth's account or used except for the payment of benefits and for the payment of expenses incurred for the administration of this title.</p><p>2. Such money may be requisitioned, pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/60.2-302/'>60.2-302</a>, for the payment of benefits. Such money may also be requisitioned and used for the payment of expenses incurred for the administration of this title but only pursuant to a specific appropriation by the General Assembly and only if the expenses are incurred and the money requisitioned after the enactment of an appropriation law which:</p><p>a. Specifies the purpose for which such money is appropriated and the amount appropriated therefor;</p><p>b. Limits the period within which such money may be obligated to a period ending not more than two years after the date of the enactment of the appropriation law; and</p><p>c. Limits the amount which may be obligated during any twelve-month period beginning on July 1 and ending on the next June 30 to an amount which does not exceed the amount by which (i) the aggregate of the amount credited to the account of this Commonwealth, pursuant to § 903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 1103), during the same twelve-month period and the thirty-four preceding twelve-month periods, exceeds (ii) the aggregate of the amounts obligated for administration and paid out for benefits and charged against the amounts credited to the account of this Commonwealth pursuant to such section during such thirty-five twelve-month periods.</p><p>B. Amounts credited to this Commonwealth's account in the Unemployment Trust Fund under § 903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 1103) which are obligated for administration or paid out for benefits shall be charged against equivalent amounts which were first credited and which are not already so charged. However, no amount obligated for administration during a twelve-month period specified in subdivision 2 of subsection A of this section may be charged against any amount credited during such a twelve-month period earlier than the thirty-fourth preceding such period.</p><p>C. Money requisitioned as provided for the payment of expenses of administration shall be deposited in the Unemployment Compensation Administration Fund, but, until expended, shall remain a part of the Unemployment Trust Fund. The Commission shall maintain a separate record of the deposit, obligation, expenditure and return of funds so deposited.</p><p>Code 1950, § 60-94.1; 1960, c. 54; 1968, c. 131; 1968, c. 738, § 60.1-111; 1970, c. 732; 1972, c. 23; 1986, c. 480.</p>