# ยง 56-599  Integrated resource plan required.

<p>A. Each electric utility shall file an updated integrated resource plan by July 1, 2015. Thereafter, each electric utility shall file an updated integrated resource plan by May 1, in each year immediately preceding the year the utility is subject to a triennial review filing. A copy of each integrated resource plan shall be provided to the Chairman of the House Committee on Labor and Commerce, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Commerce and Labor, and to the Chairman of the Commission on Electric Utility Regulation. All updated integrated resource plans shall comply with the provisions of any relevant order of the Commission establishing guidelines for the format and contents of updated and revised integrated resource plans. Each integrated resource plan shall consider options for maintaining and enhancing rate stability, energy independence, economic development including retention and expansion of energy-intensive industries, and service reliability.</p><p>B. In preparing an integrated resource plan, each electric utility shall systematically evaluate and may propose:</p><p>1. Entering into short-term and long-term electric power purchase contracts;</p><p>2. Owning and operating electric power generation facilities;</p><p>3. Building new generation facilities;</p><p>4. Relying on purchases from the short term or spot markets;</p><p>5. Making investments in demand-side resources, including energy efficiency and demand-side management services;</p><p>6. Taking such other actions, as the Commission may approve, to diversify its generation supply portfolio and ensure that the electric utility is able to implement an approved plan;</p><p>7. The methods by which the electric utility proposes to acquire the supply and demand resources identified in its proposed integrated resource plan;</p><p>8. The effect of current and pending state and federal environmental regulations upon the continued operation of existing electric generation facilities or options for construction of new electric generation facilities;</p><p>9. The most cost effective means of complying with current and pending state and federal environmental regulations, including compliance options to minimize effects on customer rates of such regulations;</p><p>10. Long-term electric distribution grid planning and proposed electric distribution grid transformation projects;</p><p>11. Developing a long-term plan for energy efficiency measures to accomplish policy goals of reduction in customer bills, particularly for low-income, elderly, and disabled customers; reduction in emissions; and reduction in carbon intensity; and</p><p>12. Developing a long-term plan to integrate new energy storage facilities into existing generation and distribution assets to assist with grid transformation.</p><p>C. As part of preparing any integrated resource plan pursuant to this section, each utility shall conduct a facility retirement study for owned facilities located in the Commonwealth that emit carbon dioxide as a byproduct of combusting fuel and shall include the study results in its integrated resource plan. Upon filing the integrated resource plan with the Commission, the utility shall contemporaneously disclose the study results to each planning district commission, county board of supervisors, and city and town council where such electric generation unit is located, the Department of Energy, the Department of Housing and Community Development, the Virginia Employment Commission, and the Virginia Council on Environmental Justice. The disclosure shall include (i) the driving factors of the decision to retire and (ii) the anticipated retirement year of any electric generation unit included in the plan. Any electric generating facility with an anticipated retirement date that meets the criteria of ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-1701.1/'>45.2-1701.1</a> shall comply with the public disclosure requirements therein.</p><p>D. The Commission shall analyze and review an integrated resource plan and, after giving notice and opportunity to be heard, the Commission shall make a determination within nine months after the date of filing as to whether such an integrated resource plan is reasonable and is in the public interest.</p><p>2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0603'>603</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0006'>6</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0296'>296</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1190'>1190</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0041'>41</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0042'>42</a>.</p>