# § 54.1-3500 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Appraisal activities" means the exercise of professional judgment based on observations and objective assessments of a client's behavior to evaluate current functioning, diagnose, and select appropriate treatment required to remediate identified problems or to make appropriate referrals.</p><p>"Art therapist" means a person who has (i) completed a master's or doctoral degree program in art therapy, or an equivalent course of study, from an accredited educational institution; (ii) satisfied the requirements for licensure set forth in regulations adopted by the Board; and (iii) been issued a license for the independent practice of art therapy by the Board.</p><p>"Art therapy" means the integrated use of psychotherapeutic principles, visual art media, and the creative process in the assessment, treatment, and remediation of psychosocial, emotional, cognitive, physical, and developmental disorders in children, adolescents, adults, families, or groups.</p><p>"Art therapy associate" means a person who has (i) completed a master's or doctoral degree program in art therapy, or an equivalent course of study from an accredited educational institution; (ii) satisfied the requirements for licensure set forth in regulations adopted by the Board; and (iii) been issued a license to practice art therapy under an approved clinical supervisor in accordance with regulations of the Board.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Counseling.</p><p>"Certified substance abuse counseling assistant" means a person certified by the Board to practice in accordance with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3507.2/'>54.1-3507.2</a>.</p><p>"Certified substance abuse counselor" means a person certified by the Board to practice in accordance with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3507.1/'>54.1-3507.1</a>.</p><p>"Counseling" means the application of principles, standards, and methods of the counseling profession in (i) conducting assessments and diagnoses for the purpose of establishing treatment goals and objectives and (ii) planning, implementing, and evaluating treatment plans using treatment interventions to facilitate human development and to identify and remediate mental, emotional, or behavioral disorders and associated distresses that interfere with mental health.</p><p>"Licensed substance abuse treatment practitioner" means a person who: (i) is trained in and engages in the practice of substance abuse treatment with individuals or groups of individuals suffering from the effects of substance abuse or dependence, and in the prevention of substance abuse or dependence; and (ii) is licensed to provide advanced substance abuse treatment and independent, direct, and unsupervised treatment to such individuals or groups of individuals, and to plan, evaluate, supervise, and direct substance abuse treatment provided by others.</p><p>"Marriage and family therapist" means a person trained in the appraisal and treatment of cognitive, affective, or behavioral mental and emotional disorders within the context of marriage and family systems through the application of therapeutic and family systems theories and techniques.</p><p>"Marriage and family therapy" means the appraisal and treatment of cognitive, affective, or behavioral mental and emotional disorders within the context of marriage and family systems through the application of therapeutic and family systems theories and techniques and delivery of services to individuals, couples, and families, singularly or in groups, for the purpose of treating such disorders.</p><p>"Practice of counseling" means rendering or offering to render to individuals, groups, organizations, or the general public any service involving the application of principles, standards, and methods of the counseling profession, which shall include appraisal, counseling, and referral activities.</p><p>"Practice of marriage and family therapy" means the appraisal and treatment of cognitive, affective, or behavioral mental and emotional disorders within the context of marriage and family systems through the application of therapeutic and family systems theories and techniques, which shall include assessment, treatment, and referral activities.</p><p>"Practice of substance abuse treatment" means rendering or offering to render substance abuse treatment to individuals, groups, organizations, or the general public.</p><p>"Professional counselor" means a person trained in the application of principles, standards, and methods of the counseling profession, including counseling interventions designed to facilitate an individual's achievement of human development goals and remediating mental, emotional, or behavioral disorders and associated distresses that interfere with mental health and development.</p><p>"Qualified mental health professional" includes qualified mental health professionals-adult and qualified mental health professionals-child.</p><p>"Qualified mental health professional-adult" means a qualified mental health professional who provides collaborative mental health services for adults. A qualified mental health professional-adult shall provide such services as an employee or independent contractor of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services or the Department of Corrections, or as a provider licensed by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services.</p><p>"Qualified mental health professional-child" means a person who by education and experience is professionally qualified and registered by the Board to provide collaborative mental health services for children and adolescents up to 22 years of age. A qualified mental health professional-child shall provide such services as an employee or independent contractor of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services or the Department of Corrections, or as a provider licensed by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services.</p><p>"Qualified mental health professional-trainee" means a person who is receiving supervised training to qualify as a qualified mental health professional and is registered with the Board.</p><p>"Referral activities" means the evaluation of data to identify problems and to determine advisability of referral to other specialists.</p><p>"Registered peer recovery specialist" means a person who by education and experience is professionally qualified and registered by the Board to provide collaborative services to assist individuals in achieving sustained recovery from the effects of addiction or mental illness, or both. A registered peer recovery specialist shall provide such services as an employee or independent contractor of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, a provider licensed by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, a practitioner licensed by or holding a permit issued from the Department of Health Professions, or a facility licensed by the Department of Health.</p><p>"Residency" means a post-internship supervised clinical experience registered with the Board.</p><p>"Resident" means an individual who has submitted a supervisory contract to the Board and has received Board approval to provide clinical services in professional counseling under supervision.</p><p>"Substance abuse" and "substance dependence" mean a maladaptive pattern of substance use leading to clinically significant impairment or distress.</p><p>"Substance abuse treatment" means (i) the application of specific knowledge, skills, substance abuse treatment theory, and substance abuse treatment techniques to define goals and develop a treatment plan of action regarding substance abuse or dependence prevention, education, or treatment in the substance abuse or dependence recovery process and (ii) referrals to medical, social services, psychological, psychiatric, or legal resources when such referrals are indicated.</p><p>"Supervision" means the ongoing process, performed by a supervisor, of monitoring the performance of the person supervised and providing regular, documented individual or group consultation, guidance, and instruction with respect to the clinical skills and competencies of the person supervised.</p><p>1976, c. 608, §§ 54-924, 54-932; 1983, c. 115; 1986, cc. 64, 464; 1988, c. 765; 1993, c. 342; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0820'>820</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0901'>901</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0473'>473</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0460'>460</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0264'>264</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0426'>426</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0375'>375</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0101'>101</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0217'>217</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0301'>301</a>.</p>