# ยง 54.1-902 Regulations; suspension or revocation of license; penalty for violation.

<p>A. The Board is authorized to promulgate regulations necessary for the proper government and regulation of pilots and to prescribe penalties for the violation of regulations in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). Regulations may include the right to suspend or revoke the branch of any pilot. Such suspension or revocation may be in addition to any other penalty imposed by law for the violation.</p><p>Reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard in accordance with the Administrative Process Act shall be given before the Board shall take any action to revoke or suspend the license of any licensee.</p><p>B. The Board may suspend a license of any person without a hearing, simultaneously with the institution of proceedings for a hearing, if it finds that there is substantial danger to the public health or safety which warrants such action. The Board may meet by telephone conference call when summarily suspending a license, if a good faith effort to assemble a quorum of the Board has failed and in the judgment of a majority of the members of the Board, the continued practice of the licensee constitutes a substantial danger to the public health or safety. Institution of proceeding for a hearing shall be provided simultaneously with the summary suspension. The hearing shall be scheduled within a reasonable time of the date of the summary suspension.</p><p>C. Before any penalty for violation of the regulations may be imposed, a printed copy of the regulations shall be furnished to each pilot.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 54-529; 1988, c. 765; 1989, c. 584.</p>