# ยง 22.1-164 Board of Commissioners; membership; terms; compensation and expenses; chairman and vice-chairman; quorum; employees, agents, etc.

<p>All powers, rights and duties conferred by this chapter or other provisions of law upon the Authority shall be exercised by the Board of Commissioners of the Virginia Public School Authority. The Board of Commissioners shall consist of the State Treasurer, the State Comptroller, the Superintendent of Public Instruction or his designee, and five additional members to be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor for terms of six years each. Appointments to fill vacancies other than by expiration of term shall be made for the unexpired terms. The chairman and members of the Board of Commissioners shall receive such compensation as provided for by law.</p><p>The Governor shall designate one member of the Board of Commissioners as chairman who shall serve a two-year term. No member shall be eligible to serve more than two consecutive terms as chairman. The chairman shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority and shall receive such compensation as the Governor shall fix. The State Treasurer, the State Comptroller, the Superintendent of Public Instruction and his designee shall be ineligible to serve as chairman. The chairman shall sign and execute all vouchers for the disbursement of funds belonging to the Authority upon authorization by the Board. Five members of the Board of Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business of the Authority. The Board of Commissioners shall elect one of its members as vice-chairman, who shall exercise the powers of the chairman when so directed by the chairman.</p><p>The Board of Commissioners may employ or retain such employees, agents, financial advisers and attorneys as it may deem necessary and fix their compensation.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 22-29.4; 1962, c. 194; 1972, c. 745; 1976, c. 22; 1980, cc. 559, 728; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>.</p>