# ยง 36-29 Power to issue bonds; liability in general.

<p>An authority shall have power to issue bonds from time to time in its discretion, for any of its corporate purposes. An authority shall also have power to issue refunding bonds for the purpose of paying or retiring bonds previously issued by it or for the purpose of refunding loans made by another entity if such loans could have been made by the authority. An authority may issue such types of bonds as it may determine, including (without limiting the generality of the foregoing):</p><p>(a) Bonds on which the principal and interest are payable:</p><p>(1) Exclusively from the income and revenues of the housing project financed with the proceeds of such bonds; or</p><p>(2) Exclusively from the income and revenues of certain designated housing projects whether or not they are financed in whole or in part with the proceeds of such bonds; or</p><p>(3) From its revenues generally.</p><p>(b) Bonds on which the principal is payable solely from annual contributions or grants received from the federal government or received from any other source, public or private.</p><p>Any such bonds may be additionally secured by a pledge of any grant or contributions from the federal government or other source, or a pledge of any income or revenues of the authority, or a mortgage of any housing project, projects or other property of the authority.</p><p>Neither the commissioners of an authority nor any person executing the bonds shall be liable personally on the bonds by reason of the issuance thereof. The bonds and other obligations of an authority (and such bonds and obligations shall so state on their face) shall not be a debt of the city, the county, the Commonwealth or any political subdivision thereof (other than the authority) and neither the city or the county, nor the Commonwealth or any political subdivision thereof (other than the authority) shall be liable thereon, nor in any event shall such bonds or obligations be payable out of any funds or properties other than those of the authority. The bonds shall not constitute an indebtedness within the meaning of any constitutional or statutory debt limitation or restriction.</p><p>1938, p. 454; Michie Code 1942, ยง 3145(14); 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0548'>548</a>.</p>