# § 2.2-2738 Virginia International Trade Corporation; purpose; membership; meetings.

<p>A. The Virginia International Trade Corporation (the Corporation) is established in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Corporation shall be to promote international trade in the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Corporation shall be governed by a board of directors (the Board) composed of 16 members as follows: the Secretaries of Agriculture and Forestry, Commerce and Trade, Finance, and Transportation, or their designees, serving ex officio with voting privileges, and 12 nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The members appointed by the Governor shall have experience as senior management personnel or leaders in the areas of agriculture, finance, development, international business, manufacturing, and trade with at least two having background and experience specific to agriculture. Ex officio members of the Board shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of six years. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The Board shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its members. The Secretaries of Agriculture and Forestry, Commerce and Trade, Finance, and Transportation shall not be eligible to serve as chairman or vice-chairman.</p><p>D. The Board shall meet at least four times annually and more often if deemed necessary or advisable by the chairman.</p><p>E. Members of the Board shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>.</p><p>2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0749'>749</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>.</p>