# ยง 45.2-575  Reports of violations.

<p>A. The operator of each mine or his agent shall deliver a copy of the Act to each miner upon the commencement of his employment at the mine, unless the miner is already in possession of a copy.</p><p>B. Any person aware of a violation of the Act may report the violation to a mine inspector or to any other employee of the Department, in person, in writing, or by telephone call, at the mine, at an office of the Department, or at the mine inspector's residence.</p><p>C. The operator of each mine or his agent shall display on a sign placed at the mine office, at the bath house, and on a bulletin board at the mine site a notice containing the office addresses and office and home telephone numbers of mine inspectors and other Department personnel for the purpose of reporting any violation of the Act.</p><p>D. The Department shall keep a record, on a form prepared for such purpose, of every alleged violation of the Act that is reported and the results of any investigation. The Department shall give a copy of the complaint form, with the identity of the person making the report and that of any individual identified in the alleged violation being omitted or deleted, to the operator of the mine or his agent. The Department shall not disclose the identity of any person who reports an alleged violation to the owner or operator of the mine or his agent or to any other person or entity. Information regarding the identity of the person reporting the violation shall be exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-3700/'>2.2-3700</a> et seq.).</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.97; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>