# ยง 64.2-901 Custodial trust; creation and termination; general provisions.

<p>A. A person may create a custodial trust of property by a written transfer of the property to another person, evidenced by registration if the property is of a type subject to registration, or by other instrument of transfer, executed in any lawful manner, naming as beneficiary an individual who may be the transferor, in which the transferee is designated, in substance, as custodial trustee under this chapter.</p><p>B. In addition, a person may create a custodial trust of property by a written declaration, evidenced by registration of the property if the property is of a type subject to registration, or by other instrument of declaration, executed in any lawful manner, describing the property and naming as beneficiary an individual other than the declarant, in which the declarant as titleholder is designated, in substance, as custodial trustee under this chapter. A registration or other declaration of trust for the sole benefit of the declarant is not a custodial trust under this chapter.</p><p>C. Title to custodial trust property is in the custodial trustee and the beneficial interest is in the beneficiary.</p><p>D. The beneficiary, if not incapacitated, may terminate a custodial trust by delivering to the custodial trustee a writing signed by the beneficiary declaring the termination. The conservator of an incapacitated beneficiary may similarly terminate the custodial trust in this manner but only if granted the power by the circuit court that appointed him in a proceeding in which the custodial trustee is made a party. If not previously terminated, the custodial trust terminates on the death of the beneficiary. A transferor may not terminate a custodial trust except as provided in this subsection.</p><p>E. Any person may augment existing custodial trust property by the addition of other property pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>F. The transferor may designate, or authorize the designation of, a successor custodial trustee in the trust instrument.</p><p>G. This chapter does not displace or restrict other means of creating trusts. A trust whose terms do not conform to this chapter may be enforceable according to its terms under other law.</p><p>1990, c. 264, ยง 55-34.2; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614'>614</a>.</p>