# ยง 16.1-334 Effects of order.

<p>An order that a minor is emancipated shall have the following effects:</p><p>1. The minor may consent to medical, dental, or psychiatric care, without parental consent, knowledge, or liability;</p><p>2. The minor may enter into a binding contract or execute a will;</p><p>3. The minor may sue and be sued in his own name;</p><p>4. The minor shall be entitled to his own earnings and shall be free of control by his parents or guardian;</p><p>5. The minor may establish his own residence;</p><p>6. The minor may buy and sell real property;</p><p>7. The minor may not thereafter be the subject of a petition under this chapter as abused, neglected, abandoned, in need of services, in need of supervision, or in violation of a juvenile curfew ordinance enacted by a local governing body;</p><p>8. The minor may enroll in any school or institution of higher education, without parental consent;</p><p>9. The minor may secure a driver's license under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-334/'>46.2-334</a> or ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-335/'>46.2-335</a> without parental consent;</p><p>10. The parents of the minor shall no longer be the guardians of the minor;</p><p>11. The parents of a minor shall be relieved of any obligations respecting his school attendance under Article 1 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-254/'>22.1-254</a> et seq.) of Chapter 14 of Title 22.1;</p><p>12. The parents shall be relieved of all obligation to support the minor;</p><p>13. The minor shall be emancipated for the purposes of parental liability for his acts;</p><p>14. The minor may execute releases in his own name;</p><p>15. The minor may not have a guardian ad litem appointed for him pursuant to any statute solely because he is under age 18; and</p><p>16. The minor may marry without parental, judicial, or other consent.</p><p>The acts done when such order is or is purported to be in effect shall be valid notwithstanding any subsequent action terminating such order or a judicial determination that the order was void ab initio.</p><p>1986, c. 506; 1990, c. 568; 1993, c. 778.</p>