# § 19.2-402 Petition for appeal; brief in opposition; time for filing.

<p>A. When a notice of appeal has been filed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-400/'>19.2-400</a>, the Commonwealth may petition the Court of Appeals for an appeal pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/19.2-398/'>19.2-398</a>. The Commonwealth shall be represented by the Attorney General or the attorney for the Commonwealth prosecuting the case if he filed a notice of appearance pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-511/'>2.2-511</a>.</p><p>B. The provisions of this subsection apply only to pretrial appeals. The petition for a pretrial appeal shall be filed with the clerk of the Court of Appeals not more than 14 days after the notice of transcript or written statement of facts required by § <a href='/vacode/19.2-405/'>19.2-405</a> is filed or, if there are objections thereto, within 14 days after the judge signs the transcript or written statement of facts. The accused may file a brief in opposition with the clerk of the Court of Appeals within 14 days after the filing of the petition for pretrial appeal. If the accused has filed a notice of cross appeal, he shall file a petition for cross appeal to be consolidated with, and filed within the same time period as, his brief in opposition. The Commonwealth may file a brief in opposition to any petition for cross appeal within 10 days after the petition for cross appeal is filed. Except as specifically provided in this section, all other requirements for the petition for pretrial appeal and brief in opposition shall conform as nearly as practicable to Part Five A of the Rules of the Supreme Court of Virginia.</p><p>1987, c. 710; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0109'>109</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0033'>33</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0294'>294</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0489'>489</a>.</p>