# ยง 55.1-2900 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Default"  means the failure to perform on time any obligation or duty set forth in the rental agreement or this chapter.</p><p>"Last known address"  means that address or electronic mail address provided by the occupant in the rental agreement or the address or electronic mail address provided by the occupant in a subsequent written notice of a change of address.</p><p>"Leased space"  means the individual storage space at the self-service facility that is leased or rented to an occupant pursuant to a rental agreement.</p><p>"Occupant"  means a person, his sublessee, successor, or assign, entitled to the use of a leased space at a self-service storage facility under a rental agreement.</p><p>"Owner"  means the owner, operator, lessor, or sublessor of a self-service storage facility, his agent, or any other person authorized to manage the facility or to receive rent from any occupant under a rental agreement.</p><p>The owner of a self-service storage facility is not a warehouseman as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/8.7-102/'>8.7-102</a>, unless the owner issues a warehouse receipt, bill of lading, or other document of title for the personal property stored, in which event, the owner and the occupant are subject to the provisions of Title 8.7 dealing with warehousemen.</p><p>"Personal property"  means movable property not affixed to land and includes goods, wares, merchandise, and household items and furnishings.</p><p>"Rental agreement"  means any agreement or lease that establishes or modifies the terms, conditions, or rules concerning the use and occupancy of a self-service storage facility.</p><p>"Self-service storage facility"  means any real property designed and used for renting or leasing individual storage spaces, other than storage spaces that are leased or rented as an incident to the lease or rental of residential property or dwelling units, to which the occupants thereof have access for storing or removing their personal property. No occupant shall use a self-service storage facility for residential purposes.</p><p>"Verified mail"  means any method of mailing that is offered by the United States Postal Service or private delivery service that provides evidence of mailing.</p><p>1981, c. 627, ยง 55-417; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0664'>664</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0208'>208</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>