# § 37.2-707 Employment and qualifications of directors of state facilities.

<p>The Commissioner shall employ a director for each state facility who shall be skilled in facility management and administration and who shall meet requirements that may be determined by the Commissioner. However, the director need not be a physician.</p><p>Any director of a state facility employed or reemployed by the Commissioner after July 1, 2002, may be employed as a classified employee or under a contract that specifies the terms and conditions of employment, including compensation, benefits, duties and responsibilities, performance standards, evaluation criteria, and contract termination and renewal provisions. The length of employment contracts shall be two years, with provisions for annual renewals thereafter based on the performance of the incumbent. Any director of a state facility employed by the Commissioner before July 1, 1999, may elect to continue his current employment status subject to the provisions of the Virginia Personnel Act, Chapter 29 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2900/'>2.2-2900</a> et seq.) of Title 2.2, or he may choose to be employed under a contract. Any director of a state facility employed under an employment contract shall be exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act, yet he shall remain subject to the provisions of the State Grievance Procedure (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3000/'>2.2-3000</a> et seq.). Personnel actions under this exemption shall be taken without regard to race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, color, national origin, religion, age, disability, or political affiliation.</p><p>Each director shall be responsible to the Commissioner or his designee for the safe, efficient, and effective operation of his state facility. Each director shall take any actions consistent with law necessary to ensure that his facility complies with all applicable federal and state statutes, regulations, policies, and agreements. The Commissioner shall evaluate the performance of each director of a state facility at least annually.</p><p>Whenever any act required by law to be performed by a director employed hereunder constitutes the practice of medicine, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2900/'>54.1-2900</a>, and the director is not a licensed physician, the act shall be performed by a licensed physician designated by the director.</p><p>1978, c. 213, § 37.1-42.2; 1980, c. 582; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0576'>576</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0565'>565</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0610'>610</a>; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0271'>271</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0572'>572</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1137'>1137</a>.</p>