# ยง 2.2-4702 Powers of the Treasury Board under this chapter.

<p>The Treasury Board shall have power to:</p><p>1. Provide assistance to issuers in the management of and accounting for their funds, including, without limitation, bond proceeds, reserves and sinking funds, and the investment thereof, any portion of the investment earnings on which is or may be subject to rebate to the federal government.</p><p>2. Manage, acquire, hold, trade and sell investment obligations, for and on behalf of issuers or a pool or pools, and not for its own account, that are authorized investments for issuer bond proceeds, reserves, sinking funds or other funds, as the case may be.</p><p>3. Establish one or more pools of the issuer bond proceeds, reserves, sinking funds or other funds that are placed in the custody of the State Treasurer for investment and reinvestment in authorized investments.</p><p>4. Adopt regulations necessary and proper for the efficient administration of the pools authorized by this chapter without complying with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.), provided that notice and an opportunity to submit written comments on such regulations be given to officials handling public funds.</p><p>5. Formulate policies for the investment and reinvestment of funds under management, including funds in the pool or pools, and the acquisition, retention, management and disposition of investments.</p><p>6. Delegate the administration of this chapter to the State Treasurer, subject to the regulations and guidelines adopted by the Treasury Board.</p><p>7. Retain employees and engage and enter into contracts with independent investment managers, accountants, counsel, depository institutions and other advisors and agents, as may be necessary or convenient.</p><p>8. Enter into contracts with issuers with respect to the performance of investment services.</p><p>9. Charge issuers for the costs of its investment services and for its expenses.</p><p>10. Do any and all other acts and things necessary, appropriate or incidental in carrying out the purposes of this chapter.</p><p>1988, c. 498, ยง 2.1-234.9:3; 1990, c. 516; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>