# § 33.2-214.2 Transparency in the development of the Six-Year Improvement Program, statewide prioritization process, and state of good repair program.

<p>A. The Board shall develop the Six-Year Improvement Program pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-214/'>33.2-214</a> in a transparent manner that provides to the public, elected officials, and other stakeholders the opportunity to engage and comment in a meaningful manner prior to the adoption of such program.</p><p>B. No later than 150 days prior to a vote to include projects or strategies evaluated pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-214.1/'>33.2-214.1</a> in the Six-Year Improvement Program, the Office of Intermodal Planning and Investment shall make public, in an accessible format, (i) a recommended list of projects and strategies for inclusion in the Six-Year Improvement Program based on the results of such evaluation; (ii) the results of the screening of candidate projects and strategies, including whether such projects are located on a primary evacuation route; (iii) whether a project has been designed to be or the project sponsor has committed that the design will be resilient; and (iv) the results of the evaluation of candidate projects and strategies, including the weighting of factors and the criteria used to determine the value of each factor.</p><p>C. The Department shall make public a recommended list of projects eligible for funds under the state of good repair program pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-369/'>33.2-369</a> from the listing of prioritized pavement and bridge needs published in the Commissioner's annual report pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-232/'>33.2-232</a> at least 150 days prior to the adoption of a Six-Year Improvement Program that includes new projects with funding from such program.</p><p>D. The Board may modify the recommended list of projects in subsection B or C through formal action.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0166'>166</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0273'>273</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0971'>971</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0051'>51</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0052'>52</a>.</p>