# ยง 3.2-3305 (Expires July 1, 2023) Dairy Producer Margin Coverage Premium Assistance Program.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall establish and administer the Dairy Producer Margin Coverage Premium Assistance Program to assist dairy producers that participate in the federal coverage program.</p><p>B. Any dairy producer in the Commonwealth that participates in the federal coverage program at the first tier coverage level and (i) has a resource management plan and has been certified as having implemented such plan by, or is in the process of having such plan reviewed by, DCR or a local soil and water conservation district, (ii) has an approved Natural Resource Conservation Service nutrient management or soil health plan developed by an approved planner, or (iii) has a nutrient management plan that has been approved by, or is currently being reviewed by, DCR shall be eligible to apply to participate in the Program. An eligible dairy producer shall apply to the Department by May 15 of each year to participate.</p><p>C. Any participating dairy producer that has paid an annual federal premium payment at the tier I level in accordance with the Farm Act and provides proof of such payment to the Department shall have the amount of such premium reimbursed by the Department. Such reimbursement shall be provided on a first-come, first-served basis and shall be subject to availability of funds expressly appropriated for the purposes set forth in this chapter.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0330'>330</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0331'>331</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>.</p>