# ยง 10.1-1187.1 Definitions.

<p>"Board or Boards" means the State Air Pollution Control Board, the State Water Control Board, and the Virginia Waste Management Board.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Environmental Quality.</p><p>"Director" means the Director of the Department of Environmental Quality.</p><p>"Environmental Management System" means a comprehensive, cohesive set of documented policies and procedures adopted by a facility or person and used to establish environmental goals, to meet and maintain those goals, to evaluate environmental performance and to achieve measurable or noticeable improvements in environmental performance, through planning, documented management and operational practices, operational changes, self assessments, and management review. The term shall include, but not be limited to, any such system developed in accordance with the International Standards of Operation 14001 standards.</p><p>"E2" means an environmental enterprise.</p><p>"E3" means an exemplary environmental enterprise.</p><p>"E4" means an extraordinary environmental enterprise.</p><p>"Facility" means a manufacturing, business, agricultural, or governmental site or installation involving one or more contiguous buildings or structures under common ownership or management.</p><p>"Record of sustained compliance" means that the person or facility (i) has no judgment or conviction entered against it, or against any key personnel of the person or facility or any person with an ownership interest in the facility for a criminal violation of environmental protection laws of the United States, the Commonwealth, or any other state in the previous five years; (ii) has been neither the cause of, nor liable for, more than two significant environmental violations in the previous three years; (iii) has no unresolved notices of violations or potential violations of environmental requirements with the Department or one of the Boards; (iv) is in compliance with the terms of any order or decree, executive compliance agreement, or related enforcement measure issued by the Department, one of the Boards, or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; and (v) has not demonstrated in any other way an unwillingness or inability to comply with environmental protection requirements.</p><p>2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0705'>705</a>.</p>