# § 46.2-341.8 Nonresidents and new residents.

<p>A. Any person who is not domiciled in the Commonwealth, who has been duly issued a commercial driver's license or commercial learner's permit by his state of domicile, who has such license or permit in his immediate possession, whose privilege or license to drive any motor vehicle is not suspended, revoked, or cancelled, and who has not been disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle, shall be permitted without further examination or licensure by the Commonwealth, to drive a commercial motor vehicle in the Commonwealth.</p><p>Within 30 days after becoming domiciled in this Commonwealth, any person who has been issued a commercial driver's license by another state and who intends to drive a commercial motor vehicle shall apply to the Department for a Virginia commercial driver's license. If the Commissioner determines that such applicant is otherwise eligible for a commercial driver's license, the Department will issue him a Virginia commercial driver's license with the same classification and endorsements as his commercial driver's license from another state, without requiring him to take the knowledge or skills test required for such commercial driver's license in accordance with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-330/'>46.2-330</a>. However, any such applicant seeking to transfer his commercial driver's license and to retain a hazardous materials endorsement shall have, within the two-year period preceding his application for a Virginia commercial driver's license, either (i) passed the required test for such endorsement specified in 49 C.F.R. § 383.121 or (ii) successfully completed a hazardous materials test or training that is given by a third party and that is deemed to substantially cover the same knowledge base as described in 49 C.F.R. § 383.121.</p><p>B. Any person who is (i) domiciled in a foreign jurisdiction that does not test drivers and issue commercial driver's licenses in accordance with, or under standards similar to, the standards contained in subparts F, G, and H of Part 383 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations or (ii) domiciled in another state while that state is prohibited from issuing commercial driver's licenses in accordance with decertification requirements of 49 C.F.R. § 384.405 may apply to the Department for a nondomiciled commercial learner's permit or nondomiciled commercial driver's license.</p><p>An applicant for a nondomiciled commercial learner's permit or nondomiciled commercial driver's license shall be required to meet all requirements for a commercial learner's permit or commercial driver's license, respectively.</p><p>An applicant domiciled in a foreign jurisdiction shall provide an unexpired employment authorization document (EAD) issued by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) or an unexpired foreign passport accompanied by an approved Form I-94 documenting the applicant's most recent admittance into the United States.</p><p>An applicant for a nondomiciled commercial driver's license or nondomiciled commercial learner's permit shall not be required to surrender his foreign license.</p><p>After receipt of a nondomiciled commercial driver's license or nondomiciled commercial learner's permit and for as long as it is valid, holders of such licenses or permits shall be required to notify the Department of any adverse action taken by any jurisdiction or governmental agency, foreign or domestic, against his driving privileges. Such notification shall be made before the end of the business day following the day the driver receives notice of the suspension, revocation, cancellation, lost privilege, or disqualification.</p><p>1989, c. 705, § 46.1-372.8; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582'>582</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0077'>77</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0258'>258</a>.</p>