# § 2.2-2825 Reimbursement for certain travel expenditures; restrictions on reimbursement.

<p>Persons conducting official business of the Commonwealth shall be reimbursed for their reasonable and necessary travel expenditures that shall include transportation as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2823/'>2.2-2823</a>, parking, and lodging. Receipts for lodging and transportation, if by other than privately owned automobile or state-owned vehicle, shall be submitted with any travel expense account presented to the Comptroller for payment. Transportation by common carrier shall be limited to the cost for travel by the most direct and practical route, and in amounts not exceeding those for tourist or coach class accommodations, if such accommodations are available. Travel shall be over the most direct and practical route. Reimbursement for the cost of transportation shall not be certified to the Comptroller for payment by state agencies in excess of the reimbursement allowed in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2823/'>2.2-2823</a> except in an emergency or, when in the interest of the Commonwealth, a greater expense is justified, the facts in each such instance to be stated in the expense account.</p><p>Persons conducting official business of the Commonwealth shall be reimbursed for the reasonable and necessary actual costs of meals, gratuities, and other incidental expenses. At the discretion of the governing authority, a per diem payment may be made in lieu of this reimbursement for meals, gratuities, and other incidental expenses.</p><p>The Comptroller shall establish policies on travel expenses for all agencies in the executive branch of state government. Policies on travel expenses for the legislative branch, judicial branch, and independent agencies shall be established by the appropriate governing authority.</p><p>1954, c. 709, § 14-5.1; 1964, c. 386, § 14.1-6; 1977, c. 493, § 14.1-5.2; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0358'>358</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872'>872</a>, § 2.1-20.10; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>