# § 38.2-1841 Termination, suspension, or revocation of license.

<p>A. A license issued to an individual insurance consultant shall authorize him to act as an insurance consultant until his license is otherwise terminated, suspended, or revoked.</p><p>B. A license issued to a business entity shall authorize such business entity to act as an insurance consultant until such license is otherwise terminated, suspended, or revoked. The dissolution or discontinuance of a partnership, whether by intent or by operation of law, shall automatically terminate the insurance consultant's license issued to such partnership. The Bureau shall automatically terminate all insurance consultant licenses within 90 calendar days of receiving notification from the clerk of the Commission that the certificate of organization or charter of a domestic limited liability company or corporation respectively, whether by intent or by operation of law, has been terminated or that the certificate of registration or certificate of authority of a foreign limited liability company or corporation, respectively, has been revoked.</p><p>C. The termination of a consultant as an insurance agent pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1825/'>38.2-1825</a> shall not result in the termination of the consultant's license, provided that the renewal application and nonrefundable renewal application processing fee prescribed in § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1840/'>38.2-1840</a> continues to be paid, the consultant license continues to be renewed as required by § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1840/'>38.2-1840</a>, and the license is not otherwise revoked, suspended, or terminated.</p><p>D. The license authority of any business entity licensed as a consultant shall terminate immediately if the designated licensed producer responsible for the business entity's compliance with the insurance laws, rules, and regulations of the Commonwealth pursuant to subdivision D 2 of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1838/'>38.2-1838</a> is removed for any reason and a new responsible producer has not been designated and the Commission notified within 30 calendar days of such removal and of the new designated responsible producer.</p><p>1985, c. 3, § 38.1-327.66; 1986, c. 562; 1987, cc. 521, 678; 1992, c. 574; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0583'>583</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0044'>44</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0552'>552</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0675'>675</a>.</p>