# ยง 33.2-233 Gathering and reporting of information and statistics.

<p>A. The Commissioner of Highways and the Director of the Department of Rail and Public Transportation shall gather and tabulate information and statistics relating to transportation and disseminate the same throughout the Commonwealth. In addition, the Commissioner of Highways shall provide a report to the Governor, the General Assembly, the Board, and the public concerning the current status of all highway construction projects in the Commonwealth. This report shall be posted at least four times each fiscal year but may be updated more often as circumstances allow. The report shall contain, at a minimum, the following information for every project in the Six-Year Improvement Program: (i) project description; (ii) total cost estimate; (iii) funds expended to date; (iv) project timeline and completion date; (v) statement of whether project is ahead of, on, or behind schedule; (vi) the name of the prime contractor; (vii) total expenditures of federal transportation funds in each county and city; (viii) total expenditures of state transportation funds in each county and city; (ix) statewide totals for federal, state, and local funds expended for highways; (x) statewide totals for federal, state, and local funds expended for transit; (xi) total funds expended on intercity passenger and freight rail line and trains; and (xii) total funds expended in each federal and state programmatic category. Use of one or more websites may be used to satisfy this requirement. Project-specific information posted on the Internet shall be updated daily as information is available.</p><p>B. The Department shall develop performance metrics that measure the efficiency and quality of the Department's processes for the review of and approval of subdivision and commercial development plans. The Commissioner of Highways shall gather and tabulate information to support development of the performance metrics. The data collected and reported shall include, at a minimum, (i) the length of time that it takes the Department to review plans from the date the plans are received in the local office of the Department until comments are returned to the local government; (ii) the number of reviews that are required to achieve final approval of plans; and (iii) measures reported at the residency, district, and statewide levels of the Department. </p><p>The Department shall adopt performance standards for the review and approval of subdivision and commercial development plans no later than January 1, 2025. Once performance standards are developed, these measures will be reported and made available for public view on the Department's website and shall be updated on a quarterly basis.</p><p>2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0585'>585</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0646'>646</a>, ยง <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0033'>33</a>.1-13.05; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0680'>680</a>.</p>