# ยง 10.1-603.19:1 Payments from a developer or subdivider.

<p>A. The Authority shall administer and manage deposits made to the Fund pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2243.1/'>15.2-2243.1</a> in accordance with a memorandum of agreement with the Director. From funds deposited pursuant to this section the Authority may charge an administrative fee, which shall be determined in consultation with the Director. The Director is authorized to expend these deposits to allow a dam owner to make the necessary upgrades to an impounding structure made necessary by a proposed development or subdivision in a dam break inundation zone.</p><p>B. Fifty percent of any funds held pursuant to subsection A shall be provided to the owner upon receipt of an alteration permit from the Virginia Soil and Water Conservation Board. The remaining funds shall be provided to the owner upon completion of the necessary upgrades and receipt of a regular operation and maintenance certificate from the Board. The owner shall post a bond or other financial guarantee payable to the Fund conditioned on completion of the stages of necessary upgrades prior to any release of payment to the owner. Such bond or other financial guarantee shall be released within 60 days of the receipt of a regular operation and maintenance certificate by the dam owner.</p><p>C. Interest generated pursuant to these deposits shall remain in the Fund and may be utilized for the purposes set out in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-603.19/'>10.1-603.19</a>.</p><p>2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0491'>491</a>.</p>