# ยง 8.8A-103 Rules for determining whether certain obligations and interests are securities or financial assets.

<p>(a) A share or similar equity interest issued by a corporation, business trust, joint stock company, or similar entity is a security.</p><p>(b) An "investment company security" is a security. "Investment company security" means a share or similar equity interest issued by an entity that is registered as an investment company under the federal investment company laws, an interest in a unit investment trust that is so registered, or a face-amount certificate issued by a face-amount certificate company that is so registered. Investment company security does not include an insurance policy or endowment policy or annuity contract issued by an insurance company.</p><p>(c) An interest in a partnership or limited liability company is not a security unless it is dealt in or traded on securities exchanges or in securities markets, its terms expressly provide that it is a security governed by this title, or it is an investment company security. However, an interest in a partnership or limited liability company is a financial asset if it is held in a securities account.</p><p>(d) A writing that is a security certificate is governed by this title and not by Title 8.3A, even though it also meets the requirements of that title. However, a negotiable instrument governed by Title 8.3A is a financial asset if it is held in a securities account.</p><p>(e) An option or similar obligation issued by a clearing corporation to its participants is not a security, but is a financial asset.</p><p>(f) A commodity contract, as defined in subdivision (a) (15) of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-102/'>8.9A-102</a>, is not a security or a financial asset.</p><p>(g) A document of title is not a financial asset unless subdivision (a) (9) (iii) of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.8A-102/'>8.8A-102</a> applies.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0200'>200</a>.</p>