# ยง 10.1-603.24 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Authority" means the Virginia Resources Authority.</p><p>"Cost," as applied to any project financed under the provisions of this article, means the total of all costs incurred by the local government as reasonable and necessary for carrying out all works and undertakings necessary or incident to the accomplishment of any project.</p><p>"Department" means the Virginia Department of Conservation and Recreation.</p><p>"Flood prevention or protection" means the construction of hazard mitigation projects, acquisition of land, or implementation of land use controls that reduce or mitigate damage from coastal or riverine flooding.</p><p>"Flood prevention or protection study" means the conduct of a hydraulic or hydrologic study of a flood plain with historic and predicted floods, the assessment of flood risk, and the development of strategies to prevent or mitigate damage from coastal or riverine flooding.</p><p>"Fund" means the Virginia Community Flood Preparedness Fund created pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/10.1-603.25/'>10.1-603.25</a>.</p><p>"Local government" means any county, city, town, municipal corporation, authority, district, commission, or political subdivision created by the General Assembly or pursuant to the Constitution of Virginia or laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Low-income geographic area" means any locality, or community within a locality, that has a median household income that is not greater than 80 percent of the local median household income, or any area in the Commonwealth designated as a qualified opportunity zone by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury via his delegation of authority to the Internal Revenue Service.</p><p>"Nature-based solution" means an approach that reduces the impacts of flood and storm events through the use of environmental processes and natural systems. A nature-based solution may provide additional benefits beyond flood control, including recreational opportunities and improved water quality.</p><p>2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0762'>762</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1199'>1199</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1219'>1219</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1254'>1254</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1280'>1280</a>.</p>