# § 10.1-1322.2 Preliminary program permit fees.

<p>A. Prior to the adoption and implementation of a permit fee schedule as authorized under subsection B of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1322/'>10.1-1322</a>, the owners of sources of air pollution which are registered by the Department in accordance with the regulations of the Board are assessed preliminary program permit fees on an annual basis in accordance with subsection C of this section. These fees shall be deposited in the Air Pollution Permit Program Fund established by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1322.1/'>10.1-1322.1</a>. The Department shall issue annual notices of the fees to owners of registered sources on or before August 1 of each fiscal year. Each notice of a fee shall include a summary of the data on which the fee is based. Fees shall be payable thirty days after receipt of notice. Failure to make timely payment within ninety days shall be grounds to institute a collection action against the owner of the registered source by the Attorney General.</p><p>B. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all owners in cases where the aggregate of all pollutants emitted (as calculated or estimated) by all sources owned or controlled by the same owner, or by any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such owner, are greater than 500 tons per year. Any individual stationary source with actual emissions (as calculated or estimated) of less than 100 tons per year shall not be subject to a fee under subsection C of this section. Determination of the tons per year of air pollution shall be based on all actual pollutants emitted during the prior calendar year.</p><p>C. The Department shall assess preliminary program permit fees uniformly, based on the aggregate of all pollutants emitted (as calculated or estimated) during the calendar year immediately preceding the fiscal year, in an amount calculated to produce revenue totaling $3.1 million. In no instance shall a preliminary fee assessed in any calendar year exceed $100,000 per source. The establishment of a fee schedule under this subsection shall be exempt from the provisions of Article 2 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4006/'>2.2-4006</a> et seq.) of Chapter 40 of Title 2.2.</p><p>D. Notices of preliminary program permit fees shall not be issued for any fiscal year in which the fees for the operating permit program are in effect in accordance with regulations adopted pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1322/'>10.1-1322</a>. Should a permit program fee become due and payable during a fiscal year when the owner has paid a preliminary program permit fee, the permit program fee shall be reduced in an amount equal to the pro rata share of the preliminary program permit fee for the months remaining in the fiscal year. The pro rata share is determined by dividing the fee into twelve equal parts and multiplying that sum by the number of months remaining in the fiscal year.</p><p>E. Utilization of the fees collected pursuant to this section shall be limited to the agency's direct and indirect costs of processing permits in order to more efficiently issue permits and to prepare for and begin implementation of the federal Clean Air Act requirements. The fees shall be exempt from statewide indirect costs charged and collected by the Department of Accounts.</p><p>F. Fees collected pursuant to this section shall not supplant or reduce in any way the general fund appropriation to the Department.</p><p>1992, c. 488.</p>