# § 58.1-2425 (Contingent expiration date — see Acts 2013, c. 766) Disposition of revenues.

<p>(For contingent expiration date — see Acts 2019, c. 52, cl. 2) Funds collected hereunder by the Commissioner shall be forthwith paid into the state treasury. Except as otherwise provided in this section, these funds shall constitute special funds within the Commonwealth Transportation Fund. Any balances remaining in these funds at the end of the year shall be available for use in subsequent years for the purposes set forth in this chapter, and any interest income on such funds shall accrue to these funds. The revenue so derived, after refunds have been deducted, is hereby allocated for the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of highways and the regulation of traffic thereon and for no other purpose. However, (i) all funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter from manufactured homes, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-100/'>46.2-100</a>, shall be distributed to the city, town, or county wherein such manufactured home is to be situated as a dwelling; (ii) all funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter from all-terrain vehicles, mopeds, and off-road motorcycles, as those terms are defined in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-100/'>46.2-100</a>, shall be distributed as follows: (a) an amount equal to a one percent tax shall be distributed in the same manner as the one percent local sales tax pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-605/'>58.1-605</a>, except that this amount collected on sales by anyone other than a Virginia dealer or on sales outside of Virginia shall be distributed to the county or city in which the vehicle is used or stored for use; (b) an amount equal to a 4.3 percent tax shall be distributed in the same manner as the state sales and use tax pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-638/'>58.1-638</a> and <a href='/vacode/58.1-638.3/'>58.1-638.3</a>, except that this amount collected on sales by anyone other than a Virginia dealer or on sales outside of Virginia shall be distributed to the county or city in which the vehicle is used or stored for use; (c) if the all-terrain vehicle, moped, or off-road motorcycle was purchased from a Virginia dealer in a county or city in a planning district described in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, an amount equal to a 0.7 percent tax shall be distributed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>; (d) if the all-terrain vehicle, moped, or off-road motorcycle was purchased from anyone other than a Virginia dealer or outside of Virginia and then used or stored for use in a county or city in a planning district described in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, an amount equal to a 0.7 percent tax shall be distributed to the county or city in which the vehicle is used or stored for use; and (e) an amount equal to a one percent tax shall be distributed in a manner consistent with the provisions of subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-638/'>58.1-638</a> for each all-terrain vehicle, moped, and off-road motorcycle subject to the additional tax within the Historic Triangle under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-2402/'>58.1-2402</a>; and (iii) all remaining funds, after the collection costs of the Department of Motor Vehicles, from the sales and use tax on motor vehicles shall be distributed to and paid into the Commonwealth Transportation Fund pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524/'>33.2-1524</a>.</p><p>(For contingent effective date — see Acts 2019, c. 52, cl. 2) Funds collected hereunder by the Commissioner shall be forthwith paid into the state treasury. Except as otherwise provided in this section, these funds shall constitute special funds within the Commonwealth Transportation Fund. Any balances remaining in these funds at the end of the year shall be available for use in subsequent years for the purposes set forth in this chapter, and any interest income on such funds shall accrue to these funds. The revenue so derived, after refunds have been deducted, is hereby allocated for the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of highways and the regulation of traffic thereon and for no other purpose. However, (i) all funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter from manufactured homes, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-100/'>46.2-100</a>, shall be distributed to the city, town, or county wherein such manufactured home is to be situated as a dwelling; (ii) all funds collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter from all-terrain vehicles, mopeds, and off-road motorcycles, as those terms are defined in § <a href='/vacode/46.2-100/'>46.2-100</a>, shall be distributed as follows: (a) an amount equal to a one percent tax shall be distributed in the same manner as the one percent local sales tax pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-605/'>58.1-605</a>, except that this amount collected on sales by anyone other than a Virginia dealer or on sales outside of Virginia shall be distributed to the county or city in which the vehicle is used or stored for use; (b) an amount equal to a 4.3 percent tax shall be distributed in the same manner as the state sales and use tax pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-638/'>58.1-638</a> and <a href='/vacode/58.1-638.3/'>58.1-638.3</a>, except that this amount collected on sales by anyone other than a Virginia dealer or on sales outside of Virginia shall be distributed to the county or city in which the vehicle is used or stored for use; (c) if the all-terrain vehicle, moped, or off-road motorcycle was purchased from a Virginia dealer in a county or city in a planning district described in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, an amount equal to a 0.7 percent tax shall be distributed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>; and (d) if the all-terrain vehicle, moped, or off-road motorcycle was purchased from anyone other than a Virginia dealer or outside of Virginia and then used or stored for use in a county or city in a planning district described in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603.1/'>58.1-603.1</a>, an amount equal to a 0.7 percent tax shall be distributed to the county or city in which the vehicle is used or stored for use; and (iii) all remaining funds, after the collection costs of the Department of Motor Vehicles, from the sales and use tax on motor vehicles shall be distributed to and paid into the Commonwealth Transportation Fund pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524/'>33.2-1524</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 58-685.23; 1966, c. 587; 1976, c. 567; 1981, c. 145; 1984, c. 675; 1986, Sp. Sess., c. 11; 1987, c. 696; 1991, c. 323; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0283'>283</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0423'>423</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0853'>853</a>; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0905'>905</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0907'>907</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0077'>77</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0522'>522</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0323'>323</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0896'>896</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0864'>864</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0405'>405</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0639'>639</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0766'>766</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0838'>838</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0052'>52</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>