# ยง 23.1-905.1 Course credit; dual enrollment courses.

<p>A. The Council, in consultation with each public institution of higher education, shall establish a policy for granting undergraduate course credit to any entering student who has successfully completed a dual enrollment course. The policy shall:</p><p>1. Outline the conditions necessary for each public institution of higher education to grant course credit for the successful completion of a dual enrollment course;</p><p>2. Identify whether each dual enrollment course offered in the Commonwealth is transferrable to a public institution of higher education as (i) a Uniform Certificate of General Studies Program or Passport Program course credit, (ii) a general elective course credit, or (iii) a course credit meeting other academic requirements of a public institution of higher education, or if such course is not likely to transfer for course credit. The policy shall also require that each school division and comprehensive community college offering a dual enrollment course clearly specify such transfer information on any website, literature, or other materials describing or advertising the course;</p><p>3. Require each public institution of higher education offering a dual enrollment course to identify the equivalent non-dual enrollment course;</p><p>4. Ensure that the grant of course credit is consistent across each public institution of higher education and each such dual enrollment course; and</p><p>5. Require that the following information be made available on the online portal maintained by the System pursuant to subsection C of ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-908/'>23.1-908</a>: (i) a description of each dual enrollment course offered in the Commonwealth; (ii) the specific academic, career, or technical programs in the System that will accept the course credit and which specific comprehensive community colleges offer such programs; and (iii) if available, the pathway maps in which the dual enrollment course is included.</p><p>B. The Council and each public institution of higher education shall make the policy available to the public on their websites. The Council shall also forward the policy to the System for inclusion in the online portal maintained by the System pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-908/'>23.1-908</a>.</p><p>C. The Council shall annually report to the House Committee on Education and the Senate Committee on Education and Health on the implementation of the course credit policy by each public institution of higher education.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0309'>309</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0316'>316</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0832'>832</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0845'>845</a>.</p>