# § 16.1-269.2 Admissibility of statement; investigation and report; bail.

<p>A. Statements made by the juvenile at the transfer hearing provided for under § <a href='/vacode/16.1-269.1/'>16.1-269.1</a> shall not be admissible against him over objection in any criminal proceedings following the transfer, except for purposes of impeachment.</p><p>B. Prior to a transfer hearing pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-269.1/'>16.1-269.1</a> or a preliminary hearing pursuant to subsection C of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-269.1/'>16.1-269.1</a>, a study and report to the court, in writing, relevant to the factors set out in subdivision A 4 of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-269.1/'>16.1-269.1</a>, as well as an assessment of any affiliation with a criminal street gang as defined in § <a href='/vacode/18.2-46.1/'>18.2-46.1</a>, shall be made by the probation services or other qualified agency designated by the court. Upon motion of the attorney for the Commonwealth for a transfer hearing pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-269.1/'>16.1-269.1</a>, the attorney for the Commonwealth shall provide notice to the designated probation services or other qualified agency of the need for a transfer report. Counsel for the juvenile and the attorney for the Commonwealth shall have full access to the study and report and any other report or data concerning the juvenile which are available to the court. The court shall not consider the report until a finding has been made concerning probable cause. If the court so orders, the study and report may be expanded to include matters provided for in § <a href='/vacode/16.1-273/'>16.1-273</a>, whereupon it may also serve as the report required by this subsection, but on the condition that it will not be submitted to the judge who will preside at any subsequent hearings except as provided for by law.</p><p>C. After the completion of the hearing, whether or not the juvenile court decides to retain jurisdiction over the juvenile or transfer such juvenile for criminal proceedings in the circuit court, the juvenile court shall set bail for the juvenile in accordance with Chapter 9 (§ <a href='/vacode/19.2-119/'>19.2-119</a> et seq.) of Title 19.2, if bail has not already been set.</p><p>1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0859'>859</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0949'>949</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0350'>350</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0590'>590</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0843'>843</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0987'>987</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0988'>988</a>.</p>