# ยง 32.1-162.31 Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund.

<p>A. From such funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly and any gifts, grants, or donations from public or private sources, there is created in the state treasury a special, nonreverting, revolving, and permanent fund to be known as the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund. The Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller and shall be administered and implemented by the Board in accordance with the provisions of this section. Interest earned on moneys in the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund shall remain in the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund. Expenditures and disbursements from the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund, which may consist of grants, donations, or other assistance, shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the chairman or vice-chairman of the Board.</p><p>B. Moneys in the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund shall be used solely to support medical and biomedical stem cell research conducted in institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth that relates to the causes and cures of disease, including paralysis caused by spinal cord injury, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and neurological disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease) and multiple sclerosis.</p><p>C. The grants, donations, or other assistance provided pursuant to this section shall be awarded in accordance with the Board's specific criteria and procedures, requirements for submission of research proposals, and evaluation mechanisms established pursuant to this chapter. However, no requirement for matching funds shall apply to the grants, donations, or other assistance awarded pursuant to the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund, and the leveraging of funds is incidental to the support provided under this section. The grants, donations, or other assistance provided pursuant to this section may be awarded to support stem cell research that is not eligible for federal research funds through the National Institutes of Health. No moneys from the Christopher Reeve Stem Cell Research Fund may be provided to any entity that conducts human stem cell research from stem cells obtained from human embryos or for conducting such research; however, research conducted using stem cells other than embryonic stem cells may be funded.</p><p>2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0696'>696</a>, ยง 23-286.1; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>