# § 60.2-521 Collection by civil action; persons subject to civil actions; other remedies; compromise and adjustment.

<p>If, after notice, any employer defaults in any payment of taxes or payment in lieu of taxes or interest or any penalty assessed pursuant to subsection C of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/60.2-501/'>60.2-501</a> and § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/60.2-513/'>60.2-513</a>, the amount due shall be collected by civil action in the name of the Commission. The employer adjudged in default shall pay the fees and costs of such action. Civil actions brought under this article to collect taxes or interest or any penalty from an employer shall be heard by the court at the earliest possible date. Such civil actions may be brought against any officer, employee, or agent of a corporation or partnership in his individual, personal capacity when that person willfully fails to cause the employer to pay the appropriate taxes and he had the authority to do so. No person shall be subject to this section unless it is proved (i) that such person had knowledge of the failure or attempt to make such payment and (ii) that such person had authority to prevent such failure or attempt. In addition to the foregoing remedies the Commission shall have such other remedies as are available to the State Tax Commissioner and county and city treasurers for the collection of taxes generally. The Commission is authorized to compromise, settle and adjust any tax or taxes, including interest, or any penalty assessed against any employer where in the judgment of the Commission the best interests of the Commonwealth will be promoted or served. The Commission may in such cases accept in full settlement of the tax assessed an amount less than that assessed.</p><p>Code 1950, § 60-78; 1968, c. 738, § 60.1-94; 1974, c. 466; 1977, c. 445; 1979, c. 634; 1986, c. 480; 1990, c. 687.</p>