# § 23.1-1207 Powers; bonds of Authority generally.

<p>A. To provide funds for the purchase of bonds of eligible institutions as authorized by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1205/'>23.1-1205</a>, the acquisition of equipment as authorized by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1206/'>23.1-1206</a>, the reimbursement of the Central Capital Planning Fund established pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1520/'>2.2-1520</a>, the payment of pre-planning or detailed planning expenses for all projects that have been approved for construction by the General Assembly, or the payment of all or any part of the cost of any project or any portion of a project, the Authority may provide by resolution for the issuance of bonds of the Authority in such amount as the Authority determines. Such bonds of the Authority are payable solely from funds of the Authority, including (i) payments of principal of and interest on bonds of eligible institutions purchased by the Authority; (ii) the proceeds of the sale of any such bonds; (iii) payments of principal of and interest on obligations transferred to the Authority by the General Assembly or from other assets or moneys transferred to the Authority by the General Assembly or eligible institutions, including lease payments or any other source of revenue; (iv) the proceeds of the sale of any such obligations or assets; (v) the proceeds from the sale of bonds of the Authority; (vi) payments made by eligible institutions under leases or sales of equipment by the Authority; (vii) funds realized from the enforcement of security interests or other liens securing such bonds; (viii) payments due under letters of credit, policies of bond insurance, bond purchase agreements, or other credit enhancements securing payment of principal of and interest on bonds of the Authority; (ix) any moneys held in funds established by the Authority pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1206/'>23.1-1206</a>; (x) any reserve or sinking fund created to secure such payment; and (xi) other available funds of the Authority.</p><p>B. Bonds of the Authority issued under the provisions of this article do not constitute a debt of the Commonwealth or a pledge of the faith or credit of the Commonwealth, and all bonds of the Authority shall contain on their face a statement to the effect that neither the faith and credit nor the taxing power of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision of the Commonwealth shall be pledged to pay the principal of or the interest on such bonds.</p><p>C. The bonds of each issue shall be dated and mature at such time as may be determined by the Authority but not to exceed 40 years from their date, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority prior to the issuance of the bonds. The bonds may bear interest payable at such time, at such rate or rates, and in such manner as may be determined by the Authority, including the determination by agents designated by the Authority under guidelines established by it. The principal of and interest on such bonds may be made payable in any lawful medium. The Authority shall determine the form, manner of execution, denomination, and place of payment of principal and interest for the bonds, which may be at the office of the State Treasurer or at any bank or trust company within or outside the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. If any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature appears on any bonds or coupons ceases to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature or such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery.</p><p>E. All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this article, other than bonds registered as to principal or in registered form, are negotiable instruments. Revenue bonds shall be in such form and bear interest at such rate or rates, either fixed rates or rates established by formula or other method, and may contain such other provisions as the Authority may determine. The principal of and premium, if any, and interest on revenue bonds are payable in United States currency. The Authority shall fix the denomination of revenue bonds and place of payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest at any bank or trust company within or outside the Commonwealth.</p><p>F. Bonds may be issued under a system of book entry for recording the ownership and transfer of ownership of rights to receive payments of principal of and premium, if any, and interest on the bonds.</p><p>G. The Authority may sell bonds issued under the provisions of this article in such manner, either at public or private sale, and for such price as it determines to be in its best interest. The proceeds of such bonds shall be disbursed for the purposes for which such bonds are issued and under such restrictions, if any, as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or the trust indenture may provide.</p><p>H. Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may under like restrictions issue temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds have been executed and are available for delivery. The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond that becomes mutilated or is destroyed or lost. Such revenue bonds may be issued without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than the proceedings, conditions, and things that are specified and required by this article.</p><p>I. Neither the members of the Authority nor any person executing any bonds issued under the provisions of this article is liable personally on such bonds or is subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance of such bonds.</p><p>J. The Authority shall not undertake a project for an eligible institution if such project was not approved by the General Assembly pursuant to a bill, and any such project to be financed by bonds issued by the Authority secured by a pledge of any revenue source cited in subdivision C 1 a, b, c, or d of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1106/'>23.1-1106</a> shall be designated by the eligible institution's governing board as a project to be undertaken by the Authority.</p><p>1964, c. 607, § 23-30.28; 1966, c. 685; 1986, c. 597; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0191'>191</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0219'>219</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0672'>672</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0689'>689</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0414'>414</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0445'>445</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0711'>711</a>; 2008, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>