# § 58.1-3373 Permanent board of equalization.

<p>A. Any county or city which uses the annual assessment method or the biennial assessment method authorized under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3253/'>58.1-3253</a> in lieu of periodic general assessments, may elect to create a permanent board of equalization in lieu of the board of equalization required under §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3370/'>58.1-3370</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3371/'>58.1-3371</a>. Such board shall consist of three or five members to be appointed by the circuit court of such county or city, or the circuit court having jurisdiction within such city, as follows: In the case of a three-member board, one member shall be appointed for a term of one year, one member shall be appointed for a term of two years, and one member shall be appointed for a term of three years. In the case of a five-member board, one member shall be appointed for a one-year term, one member shall be appointed for a two-year term, and three members shall be appointed for a three-year term. However, for any county operating under the county executive form of government, the number of members of the permanent board of equalization shall be no less than three nor more than the number of districts for the election of members of the board of supervisors in the county, and the members of the permanent board of equalization shall be appointed by the circuit court of such county for three-year terms. As the terms of the initial appointees expire, their successors shall be appointed for terms of three years. Members of such boards shall have the qualifications prescribed by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3374/'>58.1-3374</a>, and shall conduct their business as required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3378/'>58.1-3378</a>. The compensation of the members of any such boards shall be fixed by the governing body.</p><p>B. In addition to regular members appointed under subsection A, at the request of the local governing body, the circuit court for any locality may appoint one alternate member in the case of a three-member board and two alternate members in the case of a five-member board. The qualifications and compensation of alternate members shall be the same as those of regular members. In the case of a three-member board, the alternate shall be appointed for a two-year term. In the case of a five-member board, one alternate shall be appointed for a term of one year and one alternate shall be appointed for a term of two years. Thereafter, the terms for alternate members of five-member boards shall be for three-year terms.</p><p>A regular member when he knows he will be absent from or will have to abstain from any proceeding at a meeting shall notify the chairman of the board of equalization at least 24 hours prior to the meeting of such fact. The chairman may select an alternate to serve in the absent or abstaining member's place and the records of the board shall so note. Such alternate member may vote on any proceeding in which a regular member is absent or abstains. A regular member shall have the right to apply to the board of equalization for relief the same as any other taxpayer. If a regular member applies for relief, and one or more alternate members has been appointed pursuant to this section, then the chairman shall appoint an alternate member to hear and vote on such regular member's application for relief. If the chairman applies for relief, then the vice chairman shall appoint an alternate member to hear and vote on the chairman's application for relief.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A and B concerning appointment of members and alternate members by the circuit court, the board of supervisors of Loudoun County may elect to appoint the members and alternate members of its board of equalization of real estate assessments.</p><p>Code 1950, § 58-898.1; 1979, c. 577; 1984, c. 675; 1989, c. 390; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0024'>24</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0010'>10</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0548'>548</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0019'>19</a>.</p>