# § 2.2-437 Identity Management Standards Advisory Council.

<p>A. The Identity Management Standards Advisory Council (the Advisory Council) is established to advise the Secretary of Commerce and Trade on the adoption of identity management standards and the creation of guidance documents pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-436/'>2.2-436</a>.</p><p>B. The Advisory Council shall consist of seven members, to be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Governor, with expertise in electronic identity management and information technology. Members shall include a representative of the Commonwealth of Virginia Innovation Partnership Authority, five representatives of the business community with appropriate experience and expertise, and one representative of Virginia consumers. In addition to the seven appointed members, the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles, or his designee, and the Chief Information Officer of the Commonwealth, or his designee, may also serve as ex officio members with voting privileges on the Advisory Council. After the initial staggering of terms, members shall be appointed for terms of four years. Members may be reappointed.</p><p>The Advisory Council shall designate one of its members as chairman.</p><p>Members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>.</p><p>Staff to the Advisory Council shall be provided by the Office of the Secretary of Commerce and Trade.</p><p>C. Proposed guidance documents and general opportunity for oral or written submittals as to those guidance documents shall be posted on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall and published in the Virginia Register of Regulations as a general notice following the processes and procedures set forth in subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/2.2-4031/'>2.2-4031</a> of the Virginia Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). The Advisory Council shall allow at least 30 days for the submission of written comments following the posting and publication and shall hold at least one meeting dedicated to the receipt of oral comment no less than 15 days after the posting and publication. The Advisory Council shall also develop methods for the identification and notification of interested parties and specific means of seeking input from interested persons and groups. The Advisory Council shall send a copy of such notices, comments, and other background material relative to the development of the recommended guidance documents to the Joint Commission on Administrative Rules.</p><p>2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0482'>482</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0483'>483</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0395'>395</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0258'>258</a>.</p>