# § 46.2-600.1 Indication of special communication needs.

<p>A. As used in this section, "disability that can impair communication" means a condition with symptoms that can impair the ability of a person with such condition to receive, send, process, or comprehend concepts or verbal, nonverbal, or graphic symbol systems, including autism spectrum disorders as defined in § <a href='/vacode/38.2-3418.17/'>38.2-3418.17</a> and hearing loss.</p><p>B. The Department shall include on the application for registration of a motor vehicle an option for the vehicle owner to, if applicable, voluntarily indicate that he or a person who will regularly occupy his vehicle has a disability that can impair communication. On any application on which the applicant indicates that a person who will regularly occupy his vehicle has such a disability, the Department may require the applicant to certify that he has the consent of the regular occupant of the vehicle to release information pursuant to subsection D.</p><p>C. Any vehicle owner with a driver's license indicator authorized pursuant to subsection K of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-342/'>46.2-342</a>; special identification card indicator authorized pursuant to subsection L of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-345/'>46.2-345</a> or subsection H of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-345.2/'>46.2-345.2</a>; or identification privilege card indicator authorized pursuant to subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-345.3/'>46.2-345.3</a> or whose vehicle is regularly occupied by an individual with such an indicator shall be eligible for the registration indicator. A vehicle owner with such an indicator on his credential and a vehicle owner whose vehicle is regularly occupied by an individual with a driver's license indicator or special identification card indicator may apply to the Department for a registration indicator in a manner prescribed by the Commissioner.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-208/'>46.2-208</a>, the Department shall provide information regarding vehicle registrants who have indicated, pursuant to subsection B or C, that they or individuals who will regularly occupy their vehicles have a disability that can impair communication with employees and agents of criminal justice agencies as defined in § <a href='/vacode/9.1-101/'>9.1-101</a>. The Department shall confirm the presence or absence of a registration indicator indicating that the registrant or a person regularly occupying the vehicle of a registrant has a disability that can impair communication, but it shall not provide information about the type of health condition or disability that the registrant or a person regularly occupying the vehicle of a registrant has.</p><p>E. Any vehicle owner who has a registration indicator indicating that the registrant or a person regularly occupying the vehicle of a registrant has a disability that can impair communication may have such indicator removed by requesting such removal, in writing, to the Department.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0786'>786</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0358'>358</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0359'>359</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0421'>421</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0544'>544</a>.</p>