# ยง 2.2-2736 Powers and duties of the Foundation.

<p>A. The Foundation shall have the power and duty to:</p><p>1. Accept, execute, and administer any trust in which it may have an interest under the terms of the instrument creating the trust;</p><p>2. Establish and administer agreements with public or private agencies in order to achieve its goals;</p><p>3. Rent, lease, including the execution of leases with option to purchase, buy, own, acquire, and dispose of such property, real and personal, as the Foundation deems proper to carry out any of the purposes and provisions of this article;</p><p>4. Finance, fund, plan, establish, construct, enlarge, extend, equip, update, and maintain buildings, structures, and facilities that are necessary or desirable to achieve its goals;</p><p>5. Establish a corporation eligible for exemption from income taxation under ยง 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code to assist in carrying out the purposes of the Foundation;</p><p>6. Operate, manage, and oversee the retail sales, demonstration, performance, and interpretation of artisan, musical, or other cultural activities, food and visitor services, and other functions as may be necessary or desirable to achieve its goals;</p><p>7. Employ and compensate such employees and agents as the Foundation deems necessary. The Foundation may appoint an executive director who shall be authorized to employ such staff as necessary to enable the Foundation to achieve its goals. The Foundation shall determine the duties of such staff and fix salaries and compensation from such funds as may be received;</p><p>8. Borrow and seek, accept, and expend gifts, grants, or donations from public or private sources;</p><p>9. Manage the operations of any existing or new facility in accordance with the provisions of this article;</p><p>10. Facilitate the sustainability of economic development initiatives relating to the cultural and natural heritage of Southwest Virginia by providing financial resources and technical assistance to organizations and venues that contribute to achieving the goals of the Foundation;</p><p>11. Serve as a resource and referral center by maintaining and disseminating information about Southwest Virginia cultural and natural heritage efforts and venues;</p><p>12. Develop specific goals and initiatives intended to improve the quality of life and entrepreneurial opportunities in Southwest Virginia in coordination with the Virginia Tourism Corporation, the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development, Southwest Virginia tourism and economic development organizations, local governments, and other entities; and</p><p>13. Submit to the Governor and the General Assembly no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly an annual report for publication as a report document in accordance with the procedures established by the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for legislative documents and reports.</p><p>B. The Foundation may establish nonprofit, nonstock corporations under Chapter 10 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-801/'>13.1-801</a> et seq.) of Title 13.1 as public instrumentalities exercising public and essential governmental functions to assist the Foundation in (i) encouraging the economic development of Southwest Virginia through the expansion of cultural and natural heritage ventures and initiatives related to tourism and other asset-based enterprises, including the Southwest Virginia Artisan Center, The Crooked Road, 'Round the Mountain, and related cultural and natural heritage organizations and venues that promote entrepreneurial and employment opportunities and (ii) conducting other activities useful in carrying out the provisions of this article.</p><p>The board of directors of any such corporation shall be composed of the chairman of the Foundation and eight persons appointed by the Foundation. The terms of the members of any corporation established shall be four years.</p><p>The Foundation shall require any such corporation to report to it at least annually on its activities.</p><p>2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0521'>521</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0548'>548</a>.</p>