# ยง 15.2-708 Term of office of county manager; salary and performance of duties; acting manager in case of temporary absence or disability; removal or suspension.

<p>The term of office of the county manager shall expire on June 30 of each year. Except as hereinafter provided, he shall be notified at least sixty days before the expiration of his term if his services are not desired for the ensuing twelve-month period. He shall receive such annual salary as the board may prescribe payable from county funds. He shall devote his full time to the performance of the duties imposed on him by law, and the performance of such other duties as the board directs.</p><p>To perform his duties during his temporary absence or disability the manager may designate by letter filed with the clerk of the board a qualified administrative officer of the county to be acting manager. If the manager fails to make such designation, the board may, by resolution, appoint an officer of the county to perform the duties of the manager until he returns or his disability ceases.</p><p>The board may at any time remove the county manager for neglect of duty, malfeasance or misfeasance in office, or incompetency. If a majority of the qualified voters voting in the election required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-301/'>15.2-301</a> vote in favor thereof, the county manager shall be appointed for an indefinite period and be subject to removal by the county board at any time, any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding. If the board determines to remove the county manager, he shall be given, if he so requests, a written statement of the reasons alleged for the proposed removal and the right of a hearing thereon at a public meeting of the board prior to the date on which his final removal takes effect. Pending and during such hearing the board may suspend him from office, provided that the period of suspension be limited to thirty days. The action of the board in suspending or removing the county manager shall not be subject to review.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-352.2; 1952, c. 198; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-679; 1997, c. 587; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0136'>136</a>.</p>