# ยง 33.2-2000 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Commission" means the governing body of a local transportation district created pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Cost" means all or any part of the cost of the following:</p><p>1. Acquisition, construction, reconstruction, alteration, landscaping, utilities, parking, conservation, remodeling, equipping, or enlarging of transportation improvements or any portion thereof;</p><p>2. Acquisition of land, rights-of-way, property rights, easements, and interests for construction, alteration, or expansion of transportation improvements;</p><p>3. Demolishing or relocating any structure on land so acquired, including the cost of acquiring any lands to which such structure may be relocated;</p><p>4. All labor, materials, machinery, and equipment necessary or incidental to the construction or expansion of a transportation improvement;</p><p>5. Financing charges, insurance, interest, and reserves for interest on all bonds prior to and during construction and, if deemed advisable by the commission, for a reasonable period after completion of such construction;</p><p>6. Reserves for principal and interest;</p><p>7. Reserves for extensions, enlargements, additions, replacements, renovations, and improvements;</p><p>8. Provisions for working capital;</p><p>9. Engineering and architectural expenses and services, including surveys, borings, plans, and specifications;</p><p>10. Subsequent addition to or expansion of any project and the cost of determining the feasibility or practicability of such construction;</p><p>11. Financing construction of, addition to, or expansion of transportation improvements and placing them in operation; and</p><p>12. Expenses incurred in connection with the creation of the district, not to exceed $150,000.</p><p>"District" means any district created pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"District advisory board" or "advisory board" means the board appointed pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>"Federal agency" means the United States of America or any department, bureau, agency, or instrumentality thereof.</p><p>"Locality" means any county or city.</p><p>"Owner" or "landowner" means the person that has the usufruct, control, or occupation of the taxable real property as determined, pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3281/'>58.1-3281</a>, by the commissioner of the revenue of the locality in which the subject real property is located.</p><p>"Revenue" means any or all fees, tolls, rents, receipts, assessments, taxes, money, and income derived by the district, including any cash contribution or payments made to the district by the Commonwealth, any political subdivision thereof, or any other source.</p><p>"Transportation improvements" means any real or personal property acquired, constructed, improved, or used in constructing or improving any (i) public mass transit system or (ii) highway, or portion or interchange thereof, including parking facilities located within a district created pursuant to this chapter. Such improvements include public mass transit systems, public highways, and all buildings, structures, approaches, and facilities thereof and appurtenances thereto, rights-of-way, bridges, tunnels, stations, terminals, and all related equipment and fixtures.</p><p>1993, c. 395, ยง 33.1-409; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>