# ยง 45.2-732  Longwall escape routes and plan.

<p>A. The operator of any mine that uses longwalls as a method of mining shall maintain an accessible travel route off the tailgate end of the longwall working face. The operator shall familiarize all miners working on the longwall section with the procedures to follow for escape from the section and, when the travel route is impassible, the operator shall inform such miners of such fact.</p><p>B. The operator shall develop a plan for use of longwalls if the travel route becomes impassable. The plan shall address (i) the notification to miners of the fact that the travel way is blocked and of the method and timetable for reestablishment of the travel way, (ii) the re-instruction of miners regarding escapeways and escape procedures in the event of an emergency, (iii) the re-instruction of miners on the availability and use of self-contained self-rescuers, (iv) the monitoring and evaluation of the air entering the longwall section, (v) the location and effectiveness of the two-way communication systems, and (vi) a means of transportation from the longwall section to the main line. The plan provisions shall remain in effect until a travel way is reestablished on the tailgate side of a longwall section. Such an operation shall include provisions for such protective devices as fire extinguishers and respirators for miners working on the longwall section.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-71.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-95; 1984, c. 228; 1985, c. 395; 1990, c. 372; 1992, c. 360; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.168; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>