# § 15.2-410 County school board and division superintendent of schools.

<p>A. The county school board and the division superintendent of schools shall exercise all the powers conferred and perform all the duties imposed upon them by general law.</p><p>B. The county school board shall be composed of not less than three nor more than six members chosen by the board of county supervisors to serve staggered four-year terms. Initial terms may be less than four years to establish the staggered membership. The terms of no more than three members shall expire in any one year. The board of county supervisors shall establish by resolution the number of school board members and the staggered membership. The school board membership may be increased from time to time up to six members. Three-member boards need not be staggered. All appointments to fill vacancies shall be made by the board of county supervisors and shall be for the unexpired terms.</p><p>C. Each member shall receive as compensation for his services such annual salary as may be prescribed pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-32/'>22.1-32</a>.</p><p>D. The board of county supervisors may also appoint a resident of the county to cast the deciding vote in case of a tie vote of the school board as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-75/'>22.1-75</a>. The tie breaker, if any, shall be appointed for a four-year term whether appointed to fill a vacancy caused by expiration of a term or otherwise.</p><p>E. Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Board of Supervisors of Scott County may establish a staggered membership for its school board with the school board members serving three-year terms and the Board of Supervisors of Carroll County may continue to appoint five members to its school board to serve staggered five-year terms.</p><p>F. Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this section, a county which has an elected school board shall comply with the applicable provisions of Article 7 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-57.1/'>22.1-57.1</a> et seq.) of Title 22.1.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-372; 1950, pp. 124, 695; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-708; 1972, c. 470; 1976, c. 92; 1980, c. 559; 1981, c. 246; 1986, c. 618; 1997, c. 587.</p>