# ยง 62.1-256.2 (Expires July 1, 2025) Eastern Virginia Groundwater Management Advisory Committee established; sunset.

<p>A. The Department of Environmental Quality (the Department) shall establish the Eastern Virginia Groundwater Management Advisory Committee (the Committee) as an advisory committee to assist the State Water Commission and the Department in the management of groundwater in the Eastern Virginia Groundwater Management Area. Members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Director of the Department and shall be composed of nonlegislative citizen members consisting of representatives of industrial and municipal water users; representatives of public and private water providers; developers and representatives from the economic development community; representatives of agricultural, conservation, and environmental organizations; state and federal agency officials; and university faculty and citizens with expertise in water resources-related issues. The Department shall convene the Committee at least four times each fiscal year. Members of the Committee shall receive no compensation for their service and shall not be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.</p><p>B. During each meeting of the Committee, the Department shall (i) update the Committee on activities pertaining to groundwater management in the Eastern Virginia Groundwater Management Area and (ii) solicit members to present topics and analysis for examination at future meetings. The Committee may develop specific statutory, budgetary, and regulatory recommendations, as necessary, to enhance the effectiveness of groundwater management in the Eastern Virginia Groundwater Management Area.</p><p>C. The Department shall annually report the results of the Committee's examinations and related recommendations, and any responses from the Department, to the State Water Commission, the Governor, and the General Assembly no later than November 1 of each year.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section shall expire on July 1, 2025.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>