# ยง 46.2-1190.1 Curricula requirements.

<p>A. The curriculum used in a novice rider-training course to train novice riders shall be approved by the Department. Each participant enrolled in a novice rider-training course shall receive no less than the minimum number of hours of classroom and on-cycle instruction as specified in the current approved curriculum.</p><p>All novice rider courses shall include a module on the effects of alcohol and other drugs on motorcycle operation, and a thorough review of Virginia laws and rules of the road applicable to motorcycles. All novice rider course participants shall be provided one copy of the course textbook and one copy of the Virginia Motorcycle Operator Manual. During the on-cycle instruction no more than six students may be under the supervision of any one instructor at any one time. No more than 12 students may operate motorcycles on the same range at the same time.</p><p>B. The curriculum used to train experienced riders shall be approved by the Department. Each participant enrolled in an experienced rider course shall receive no less than the minimum number of hours of classroom and on-cycle instruction as specified in the current approved curriculum.</p><p>All experienced rider courses shall include a module on the effects of alcohol and other drugs on motorcycle operation, and a review of Virginia laws and rules of the road applicable to motorcycles. During on-cycle instruction no more than six students may be under the supervision of any one instructor at any one time, and no more than 12 students may operate motorcycles on the same range at the same time.</p><p>C. The curriculum used to train sidecar and three-wheeled motorcycle riders shall be approved by the Department. Each participant enrolled in a sidecar and three-wheeled motorcycle course shall receive no less than the minimum number of hours of classroom and on-cycle instruction as specified in the current curriculum.</p><p>All sidecar and three-wheeled motorcycle course participants shall include a module on the effects of alcohol and other drugs on motorcycle operation, and a thorough review of Virginia laws and rules of the road applicable to motorcycles. During on-cycle instruction no more than six students may be under the supervision of any one instructor at any one time, and no more than six students may operate sidecars or three-wheeled motorcycles on the same range at the same time.</p><p>D. All course participants shall be required to wear the following protective gear during on-cycle instruction:</p><p>1. A minimum three-quarter shell motorcycle helmet that meets U.S. Department of Transportation Safety standards;</p><p>2. Eye protection;</p><p>3. A pair of boots or shoes that cover and protect the ankles and feet;</p><p>4. A long sleeved jacket or long sleeved shirt and long pants of denim or other material of equivalent durability; and</p><p>5. A pair of full-fingered gloves of leather or other material with resistance to abrasion.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>.</p>