# ยง 38.2-1353 Prohibited acts.

<p>No insurer shall authorize its reinsurance intermediary manager to, and no reinsurance intermediary manager shall:</p><p>1. Cede retrocessions on behalf of the reinsurer, except that the reinsurance intermediary manager may cede facultative retrocessions pursuant to obligatory facultative agreements if the contract between the reinsurance intermediary manager and the reinsurer contains reinsurance underwriting guidelines for such retrocessions. Such guidelines shall include a list of reinsurers with which such automatic agreements are in effect, and for each such reinsurer, the coverages and amounts or percentages that may be reinsured, and commission schedules.</p><p>2. Commit the reinsurer to participate in reinsurance syndicates.</p><p>3. Permit any agent or reinsurance intermediary to represent the reinsurer without assuring that the agent or reinsurance intermediary is lawfully licensed.</p><p>4. Without prior approval of the reinsurer, pay or commit the reinsurer to pay a claim, net of retrocessions, that exceeds the lesser of an amount specified by the reinsurer or one percent of the reinsurer's surplus to policyholders as of December 31 of the last completed calendar year.</p><p>5. Collect any payment from a retrocessionaire or commit the reinsurer to any claim settlement with a retrocessionaire without prior approval of the reinsurer. If prior approval is given, a report must be promptly forwarded to the reinsurer.</p><p>6. Jointly employ an individual who is employed by the reinsurer unless such reinsurance manager is under common control with the reinsurer subject to Article 5 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1322/'>38.2-1322</a> et seq.) of this chapter or Article 2 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4230/'>38.2-4230</a> et seq.) of Chapter 42 of this title.</p><p>7. Appoint a sub-reinsurance intermediary manager.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>.</p>