# ยง 13.1-898.2 Domestication.

<p>A. A foreign corporation may become a domestic corporation if the laws of the jurisdiction in which the foreign corporation is incorporated authorize it to domesticate in another jurisdiction. The laws of the Commonwealth shall govern the effect of domesticating in the Commonwealth pursuant to this article.</p><p>B. A domestic corporation not required by law to be a domestic corporation may become a foreign corporation if the jurisdiction in which the corporation intends to domesticate allows for the domestication. Regardless of whether the laws of the foreign jurisdiction require the adoption of a plan of domestication, the domestication shall be approved in the manner provided in this article. The laws of the jurisdiction in which the corporation domesticates shall govern the effect of domesticating in that jurisdiction.</p><p>C. The plan of domestication shall set forth:</p><p>1. A statement of the jurisdiction in which the corporation is to be domesticated;</p><p>2. The terms and conditions of the domestication; and</p><p>3. For a foreign corporation that is to become a domestic corporation, as a referenced attachment, amended and restated articles of incorporation that comply with the requirements of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-819/'>13.1-819</a> as they will be in effect upon consummation of the domestication.</p><p>D. The plan of domestication may include any other provision relating to the domestication.</p><p>E. The plan of domestication may also include a provision that the board of directors may amend the plan at any time prior to issuance of the certificate of domestication or such other document required by the laws of the other jurisdiction to consummate the domestication. Where a plan of domestication is required to be submitted to the members for their approval, an amendment made subsequent to the submission of the plan to the members of the corporation shall not alter or change any of the terms or conditions of the plan if such alteration or change would adversely affect the members of any class of the corporation.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0374'>374</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0130'>130</a>.</p>