# ยง 3.2-4900 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advertisement" means all representations, other than those on the label, disseminated in any manner or by any means, relating to animal remedies.</p><p>"Animal" means any animate being, which is not human, endowed with the power of voluntary action.</p><p>"Animal remedies" means all drugs, combinations of drugs, proprietary medicines, and combinations of drugs and other ingredients, other than for food purposes or cosmetic purposes that are prepared or compounded for animal use; except those exempted by the Commissioner.</p><p>"Dosage form" means any animal remedy prepared in tablets, pills, capsules, ampules, or other units suitable for administration as an animal remedy.</p><p>"Drug" means articles: (i) recognized in the latest addition or any supplement thereto of the Official United States Pharmacopoeia, the official Homeopathic Pharmacopoeia of the United States, or the Official National Formulary; (ii) intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in animals; (iii) other than food or cosmetics, intended to affect the structure or any function of the body of animals; or (iv) intended for use as a component of any articles specified in clauses (i) or (ii) of this definition.</p><p>"Label" means a display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container of any article.</p><p>"Labeling" means all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter upon any article or any of its containers or wrappers or accompanying such article.</p><p>"Medicated feed" means a product obtained by mixing a commercial feed and a drug.</p><p>"Quantity statement" means the net weight (mass), net volume (liquid or dry), count or other form of measurement of a commodity.</p><p>"Sell" or "sale" includes exchange.</p><p>"Stop sale, use, removal, or seizure order" means an order that prohibits the distributor from selling, relocating, using, or disposing of an animal remedy in any manner, until the Commissioner or an appropriate gives written permission to sell, relocate, use or dispose of the animal remedy.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-646.1; 1956, c. 517; 1966, c. 702, ยง 3.1-829; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>