# ยง 38.2-3566 Approval of independent review organizations.

<p>A. Each independent review organization that wishes to be eligible to conduct external reviews shall submit an application to the Commission for approval or reapproval. The Commission may charge a reasonable fee for initial approval and each reapproval.</p><p>B. The Commission shall approve independent review organizations that meet the minimum qualifications to conduct external reviews. Such approval is not subject to the Virginia Public Procurement Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4300/'>2.2-4300</a> et seq.).</p><p>C. An independent review organization is eligible for approval if it is accredited by a nationally recognized private accrediting entity that the Commission has determined has standards that are equivalent to or at least meet the minimum qualifications for independent review organizations.</p><p>D. An approval or reapproval is effective for two years, unless the Commission determines before its expiration that the independent review organization is not satisfying the minimum qualifications or its decisions have been consistently unclear or incomplete. Whenever the Commission determines that an independent review organization has lost its accreditation or does not meet the requirements of this subsection, the Commission shall terminate the approval of the independent review organization and remove it from the list of independent review organizations approved to conduct external reviews.</p><p>E. The Commission shall maintain and periodically update a list of approved independent review organizations.</p><p>F. The assignment by the Commission of an approved independent review organization shall be done on a random basis, taking into consideration the nature of the health care service or treatment.</p><p>2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0788'>788</a>.</p>