# ยง 3.2-1511 Virginia Cotton Fund established.

<p>There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Cotton Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All assessments paid pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-1512/'>3.2-1512</a> shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund.</p><p>The Cotton Board, to help defray the costs of Cotton Board programs, may sell printed materials, rent exhibit space at meetings, and engage in any revenue-producing activity related to research, education, and promotion of the growth and use of cotton. The Cotton Board shall promptly pay the proceeds of any such revenue-producing activities into the Fund.</p><p>Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the Cotton Board on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by a duly authorized officer of the Cotton Board.</p><p>The Auditor of Public Accounts shall audit all the accounts of the Cotton Board as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-133/'>30-133</a>.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0873'>873</a>, ยง 3.1-1101; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>