# ยง 15.2-614 Powers and duties of manager.

<p>As the administrative head of the county government for the board, the manager shall supervise the collection of all revenues, guard adequately all expenditures, secure proper accounting for all funds, safeguard the property of the county, exercise general supervision over all county institutions and agencies, and, with the board's approval, coordinate the various activities of the county and unify the management of its affairs.</p><p>He shall also:</p><p>1. Execute and enforce all board resolutions and orders and see that all laws of the Commonwealth required to be enforced through the board or other county officers subject to the board's control are faithfully executed.</p><p>2. Attend all meetings of the board and recommend such action as he deems expedient.</p><p>3. Subject to such limitations as made by general law, fix, with the board's approval, the compensation of all officers and employees whom he or a subordinate appoints or employs.</p><p>4. Submit to the board each year a proposed annual budget, with his recommendations, and execute the budget as finally adopted.</p><p>5. Make regular monthly reports to the board on administrative matters and keep the board fully advised as to the county's financial condition.</p><p>6. Examine regularly the books and papers of every officer and department of the county and report to the board the condition in which he finds them. He may order an audit of any office at any time.</p><p>7. Perform such other duties as the board imposes upon him.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-317; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-637; 1997, c. 587.</p>