# § 23.1-3206 Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation established; board of trustees.

<p>A. The Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation (the Foundation) is established as an educational institution to administer certain historical museums and such related programs as may be established by the board of trustees.</p><p>B. The Foundation shall be administered by a board of trustees (the board). There shall be 12 nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor from the Commonwealth at large for four-year terms, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly; eight members of the House of Delegates appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the rules of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; four members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; five members annually elected by the board, some of whom may be nonresidents of the Commonwealth; and any chairman emeritus elected by the board pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/23.1-3207/'>23.1-3207</a>. The Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Attorney General, the Speaker of the House of Delegates, the President Pro Tempore of the Senate, the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations, either the Chairman or the Chairman Emeritus of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, to be determined by the Senate Committee on Rules, the Secretary of Education, and the president of the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation, Inc., shall serve ex officio.</p><p>Legislative and ex officio members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>C. The board shall elect a chairman, vice-chairman, and such other officers as it deems necessary. The chairman shall appoint at least seven members to constitute an executive committee, which shall include the chairman and vice-chairman. The meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>D. Nonresident members of the board shall serve at no expense to the Commonwealth. Members who are residents of the Commonwealth shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a> and shall receive compensation at the per diem rate established for members of the General Assembly as provided in § <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>. The funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Foundation.</p><p>1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0589'>589</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0786'>786</a>, § 23-287; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0104'>104</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0125'>125</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0879'>879</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0480'>480</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>