# ยง 45.2-2004  Powers and duties of the Department.

<p>A. The Department has jurisdiction and authority over all persons and property, public and private, necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter and has the power and authority to make and enforce regulations and orders and do whatever is reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. Any regulations adopted by the Department pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be adopted in compliance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>B. The Department shall:</p><p>1. Consult with the Board in carrying out its powers and duties pursuant to the provisions of this chapter;</p><p>2. Develop a comprehensive geothermal permitting system for the Commonwealth that provides for the exploration and development of geothermal resources;</p><p>3. Adopt regulations necessary to provide for geothermal drilling and the exploration for and development of geothermal resources in the Commonwealth. Such regulations shall be based on a system of correlative rights;</p><p>4. Establish minimum temperature levels and volumetric rates in order to determine Department jurisdiction over geothermal resource development. In establishing such temperature levels, the Department shall set (i) minimum temperature levels for permitting, well regulations, reservoir management, and allocation of geothermal resources and (ii) minimum volumetric rates for geothermal leasing, royalties, and severance taxes, as necessary. The Department shall review established temperature level and volumetric rate requirements biennially and revise the figures as necessary. Revision of temperature levels or volumetric rate requirements shall not occur more often than every two years, and such revision shall not operate retroactively; and</p><p>5. Consult with the State Department of Health as necessary to protect potable waters of the Commonwealth and to carry out the powers and duties of the Department pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>1981, c. 506, ยง 45.1-179.7; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>