# ยง 30-56 Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission; composition; terms; compensation and expenses; office space; quorum; voting on recommendations.

<p>There is hereby created the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission in the legislative branch of state government. The Commission shall consist of nine members of the House of Delegates appointed by the Speaker thereof, of whom at least five shall be members of the House Committee on Appropriations, and five members from the Senate appointed by the Rules Committee of the Senate, of whom at least two shall be members of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, and the Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall serve as a nonvoting ex officio member. Members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Members may be reappointed for successive terms.</p><p>Members of the Commission shall receive such compensation as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a> and shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties on the Commission. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided from existing appropriations to the Commission. Adequate office space shall be provided by the Commonwealth.</p><p>The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. Meetings of the Commission shall be held upon the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>No recommendation of the Commission shall be adopted if a majority of the Senate members or a majority of the House members appointed to the Commission (i) vote against the recommendation and (ii) vote for the recommendation to fail notwithstanding the majority vote of the Commission.</p><p>1973, c. 452; 1979, c. 316; 1988, c. 172; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>.</p>