# § 54.1-2957.01 Prescription of certain controlled substances and devices by licensed nurse practitioners.

<p>A. In accordance with the provisions of this section and pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 33 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-3300/'>54.1-3300</a> et seq.), a licensed nurse practitioner shall have the authority to prescribe Schedule II through Schedule VI controlled substances and devices as set forth in Chapter 34 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-3400/'>54.1-3400</a> et seq.).</p><p>B. A nurse practitioner who does not meet the requirements for practice without a written or electronic practice agreement set forth in subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2957/'>54.1-2957</a> shall prescribe controlled substances or devices only if such prescribing is authorized by a written or electronic practice agreement entered into by the nurse practitioner and a patient care team physician or, if the nurse practitioner is licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of clinical nurse specialist, the nurse practitioner and a licensed physician. Such nurse practitioner shall provide to the Boards of Medicine and Nursing such evidence as the Boards may jointly require that the nurse practitioner has entered into and is, at the time of writing a prescription, a party to a written or electronic practice agreement with a patient care team physician, or, if the nurse practitioner is licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of clinical nurse specialist, a licensed physician, that clearly states the prescriptive practices of the nurse practitioner. Such written or electronic practice agreements shall include the controlled substances the nurse practitioner is or is not authorized to prescribe and may restrict such prescriptive authority as described in the practice agreement. Evidence of a practice agreement shall be maintained by a nurse practitioner pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2957/'>54.1-2957</a>. Practice agreements authorizing a nurse practitioner to prescribe controlled substances or devices pursuant to this section either shall be signed by the patient care team physician, or, if the nurse practitioner is licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of clinical nurse specialist, a licensed physician, or shall clearly state the name of the patient care team physician, or, if the nurse practitioner is licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of clinical nurse specialist, the name of the licensed physician, who has entered into the practice agreement with the nurse practitioner.</p><p>It shall be unlawful for a nurse practitioner to prescribe controlled substances or devices pursuant to this section unless (i) such prescription is authorized by the written or electronic practice agreement or (ii) the nurse practitioner is authorized to practice without a written or electronic practice agreement pursuant to subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2957/'>54.1-2957</a>.</p><p>C. The Boards of Medicine and Nursing shall promulgate regulations governing the prescriptive authority of nurse practitioners as are deemed reasonable and necessary to ensure an appropriate standard of care for patients. Such regulations shall include requirements as may be necessary to ensure continued nurse practitioner competency, which may include continuing education, testing, or any other requirement, and shall address the need to promote ethical practice, an appropriate standard of care, patient safety, the use of new pharmaceuticals, and appropriate communication with patients.</p><p>D. This section shall not limit the functions and procedures of certified registered nurse anesthetists or of any nurse practitioners which are otherwise authorized by law or regulation.</p><p>E. The following restrictions shall apply to any nurse practitioner authorized to prescribe drugs and devices pursuant to this section:</p><p>1. The nurse practitioner shall disclose to the patient at the initial encounter that he is a licensed nurse practitioner. Any party to a practice agreement shall disclose, upon request of a patient or his legal representative, the name of the patient care team physician, or, if the nurse practitioner is licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of clinical nurse specialist, the name of the licensed physician, and information regarding how to contact the patient care team physician or licensed physician.</p><p>2. Physicians shall not serve as a patient care team physician on a patient care team or enter into a practice agreement with more than six nurse practitioners at any one time, except that a physician may serve as a patient care team physician on a patient care team with up to 10 nurse practitioners licensed in the category of psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner.</p><p>F. This section shall not prohibit a licensed nurse practitioner from administering controlled substances in compliance with the definition of "administer" in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3401/'>54.1-3401</a> or from receiving and dispensing manufacturers' professional samples of controlled substances in compliance with the provisions of this section.</p><p>G. Notwithstanding any provision of law or regulation to the contrary, a nurse practitioner licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of certified nurse midwife and holding a license for prescriptive authority may prescribe Schedules II through VI controlled substances. However, if the nurse practitioner licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing in the category of certified nurse midwife is required, pursuant to subsection H of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2957/'>54.1-2957</a>, to practice pursuant to a practice agreement, such prescribing shall also be in accordance with any prescriptive authority included in such practice agreement.</p><p>H. Notwithstanding any provision of law or regulation to the contrary, a nurse practitioner licensed by the Boards of Medicine and Nursing as a certified registered nurse anesthetist shall have the authority to prescribe Schedule II through Schedule VI controlled substances and devices in accordance with the requirements for practice set forth in subsection C of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2957/'>54.1-2957</a> to a patient requiring anesthesia, as part of the periprocedural care of such patient. As used in this subsection, "periprocedural" means the period beginning prior to a procedure and ending at the time the patient is discharged.</p><p>1991, cc. 519, 524; 1992, c. 409; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0506'>506</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0745'>745</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0924'>924</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0926'>926</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0494'>494</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0213'>213</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0495'>495</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0776'>776</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0100'>100</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0161'>161</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0157'>157</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0396'>396</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0197'>197</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0667'>667</a>.</p>