# ยง 23.1-2420 Form of bonds.

<p>A. Bonds of the Authority shall (i) be authorized by resolution setting forth the maximum principal amount issuable, (ii) be dated, and (iii) mature not more than 40 years from their date and may be (a) issued in one or more series and (b) made redeemable or subject to tender before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price or under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority or its agents prior to issuance.</p><p>B. Bonds of the Authority shall bear interest payable at such times and rates and in such manner as the Authority or its agents may determine, including rates approved by officers of the Authority under authorization of the board, rates tied to indices, rates of other securities, or other standards and determinations by agents designated by the Authority under guidelines established by the Authority.</p><p>C. The Authority shall determine the form, manner of execution, and denominations of its bonds and the place of payment of principal and interest, which may be at any bank or trust company or securities depository within or outside the Commonwealth. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form, or both, and provision may be made for their registration in whole or in part. Bonds issued in registered form may be issued under a system of book-entry for recording the ownership and transfer of ownership of rights to receive payments on the bonds.</p><p>D. If any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature appears on any bonds or coupons ceases to hold such office before delivery of such bond, such signature or facsimile is nevertheless valid and sufficient for all purposes.</p><p>E. The Authority may contract for the services of one or more banks, trust companies, financial institutions, or other entities or persons within or outside the Commonwealth for the authentication, registration, transfer, exchange, and payment of bonds or provide such services itself. The Authority may sell such bonds at public or private sale and for such price as it determines.</p><p>F. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or any recitals in any bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter, all such bonds are negotiable instruments under the laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>G. Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may issue interim receipts or temporary bonds that are exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds are executed and available for delivery.</p><p>H. The Authority may provide for the replacement of any mutilated, destroyed, stolen, or lost bonds.</p><p>1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0905'>905</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1046'>1046</a>, ยง 23-50.16:27; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>