# ยง 29.1-819 Grounds for denying, suspending or revoking licenses.

<p>A license may be denied, suspended or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds:</p><p>1. Material misstatement in application for license.</p><p>2. Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or any lawful regulation promulgated by the Board under this chapter.</p><p>3. Being a watercraft dealer, failure to have an established place of business as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-801/'>29.1-801</a>.</p><p>4. Willfully defrauding any retail buyer, to the buyer's damage, or any other person in the conduct of the licensee's business.</p><p>5. Employment of fraudulent devices, methods or practices in connection with compliance with the requirements under the statutes of this Commonwealth with respect to the retaking of watercraft under retail installment contracts and the redemption and resale of such watercraft.</p><p>6. Having used unfair methods of competition or unfair deceptive acts or practices.</p><p>7. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation or statement of fact which is untrue, misleading or deceptive in any particular relating to the conduct of the business licensed or for which a license is sought.</p><p>8. Having been convicted of any fraudulent act in connection with the business of selling watercraft.</p><p>9. Having been convicted of a crime involving the acquisition or transference of title to a watercraft.</p><p>10. Willfully retaining title to a watercraft that has not been completely and legally assigned.</p><p>11. Failure to submit to the Director any application or fees collected for the Department on behalf of the buyer within thirty days of receipt.</p><p>1988, c. 592.</p>