# ยง 9.1-205 Thermal Imaging Camera Grant Fund established.

<p>A. From only such funds as are appropriated from the general fund by the General Assembly for this purpose and from such gifts, donations, grants, bequests and other funds as may be received on its behalf, there is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Thermal Imaging Camera Grant Fund, hereinafter referred to as the "VTIC Fund." No moneys from the Fire Programs Fund established pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-401/'>38.2-401</a> may be used or expended for the VTIC Fund. The VTIC Fund is established to assist the localities of the Commonwealth providing fire service operations in purchasing thermal imaging cameras and equipment associated with the use of thermal imaging cameras. The VTIC Fund shall be administered by the Department of Fire Programs and established on the books of the Comptroller. Any moneys remaining in the VTIC Fund at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the VTIC Fund. Moneys in the VTIC Fund shall not be diverted or expended for any purpose not authorized by this section. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, policies established by the Virginia Fire Services Board, and any grants provided from the VTIC Fund, that are not inconsistent with the purposes set out in this section shall be binding upon any locality that accepts such funds or related grants. Expenditures for administration of and disbursements from the VTIC Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Executive Director of the Department of Fire Programs or his designee.</p><p>B. When, and only if, funds are available in the VTIC Fund, a Virginia Thermal Imaging Camera Advisory Panel (the Panel) shall be convened to make recommendations to the Department of Fire Programs for the use of the VTIC Fund. The Panel shall consist of eleven members as follows: three members from the State Fire Chief's Association, three members from the Virginia Professional Firefighters Association and three members from the Virginia State Firefighters Association, appointed by the Fire Services Board from a list of names submitted by each such organization. At least two members shall be appointed from each of the fire program areas established by the Department of Fire Programs. The Panel shall be selected annually only if moneys are available in the VTIC Fund and shall report directly to the Executive Director of the Department of Fire Programs. The Panel shall not have any responsibility or authority over any other matters not specified in this section. Members of the Panel shall not receive compensation, but shall be reimbursed for their reasonable and necessary expenses in the discharge of their duties.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0721'>721</a>.</p>