# ยง 38.2-1216 Clerk of Commission to be appointed agent for service of process; procedure thereafter.

<p>A. Each attorney of a domestic reciprocal who files the declaration required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1219/'>38.2-1219</a>, and each attorney of a foreign or alien reciprocal who applies for a license to transact the business of insurance in this Commonwealth shall file with the Commission a written power of attorney executed in duplicate by the attorney appointing the clerk of the Commission as agent of the reciprocal. Upon the appointment, the clerk of the Commission (i) may be served all lawful process against or notice to such reciprocal, and (ii) shall be authorized to enter an appearance in behalf of the reciprocal. A copy of the power of attorney, duly certified by the Commission, shall be received in evidence in all courts of this Commonwealth. Any domestic, foreign or alien reciprocal that, on July 1, 1986, has appointed the Secretary of the Commonwealth as its agent for service of process shall comply with the requirements of this section within six months of July 1, 1986.</p><p>B. Whenever any such process or notice is served upon the clerk of the Commission, a copy of the process or notice shall be mailed to the attorney at the address shown on the power of attorney. Nothing in this section shall limit the right to serve any process or notice upon any reciprocal in any other manner permitted by law.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 38-547; 1952, c. 317, ยง 38.1-706; 1968, c. 125; 1976, c. 559; 1986, c. 562.</p>