# ยง 59.1-209 Contracting requirements.

<p>A. Every contract for invention development services shall be in writing and shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. A copy of the written contract shall be given to the customer at the time he signs the contract.</p><p>B. If it is the invention developer's normal practice to seek more than one contract in connection with an invention, or if the invention developer normally seeks to perform services in connection with an invention in more than one phase with the performance of each phase covered in one or more subsequent contracts, at the time the customer signs the first contract, the invention developer shall so state in writing and shall supply to the customer such writing together with a written summary of the developer's normal terms, if any, of such subsequent contracts, including the amount of the developer's normal fees or other consideration, if any, that may be required from the customer.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding any contractual provision to the contrary, no payment for invention development services shall be required, made or received until the expiration of a four-working-day period commencing on the date on which the customer receives a copy of the contract for invention development services signed by the invention developer. Delivery of a promissory note, check, bill of exchange or negotiable instrument of any kind to the invention developer or to a third party, irrespective of the date or dates appearing on such instrument, shall be deemed payment for the purpose of this section.</p><p>D. Until the payment specified in this section is made, the parties shall have the option to terminate the contract, which option may be exercised as follows: (i) the customer may exercise the option by refraining from making payment to the invention developer, (ii) the invention developer may exercise the option to terminate by giving to the customer a written notice of its exercise of the option, which written notice shall become effective upon receipt thereof by the customer.</p><p>1977, c. 649.</p>