# ยง 13.1-1226 Beneficial interests.

<p>A. Except to the extent otherwise provided in the articles of trust or in the governing instrument of a business trust, a beneficial owner shall have an undivided beneficial interest in the property of the business trust and shall share in the profits and losses of the business trust in the proportion (expressed as a percentage) of the entire undivided beneficial interest in the business trust owned by the beneficial owner. The governing instrument of a business trust may provide that the business trust or the trustees, acting for and on behalf of the business trust, shall be deemed to hold beneficial ownership of any income earned on securities owned by the business trust issued by any business entities formed, organized or existing under the laws of any jurisdiction, including the laws of any foreign country.</p><p>B. 1. Except to the extent otherwise provided in the articles of trust or in the governing instrument of a business trust, a beneficial owner has no interest in specific business trust property.</p><p>2. A creditor of the beneficial owner has no right to obtain possession of, or otherwise exercise legal or equitable remedies with respect to, the property of the business trust.</p><p>C. A beneficial owner's beneficial interest in the business trust is personal property notwithstanding the nature of the property of the business trust.</p><p>D. Except to the extent otherwise provided in the articles of trust or in the governing instrument of a business trust, a beneficial owner's beneficial interest in the business trust is freely transferable.</p><p>E. Except to the extent otherwise provided in the articles of trust or in the governing instrument of a business trust, at the time a beneficial owner becomes entitled to receive a distribution, the beneficial owner has the status of, and is entitled to all remedies available to, a creditor of the business trust with respect to the distribution. A governing instrument may provide for the establishment of record dates with respect to allocations and distributions by a business trust.</p><p>F. A beneficial owner of a business trust does not have a vested property right resulting from any provision of the articles of trust.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0621'>621</a>.</p>