# ยง 58.1-4031 Powers and duties of the Director related to sports betting; reporting.

<p>A. The Department shall operate a sports betting program under the direction of the Director, who shall allow applicants to apply for permits to engage in sports betting operations in the Commonwealth. The Board shall regulate such operations. The Department shall not operate a sports betting platform or a sports betting facility.</p><p>B. The Director may:</p><p>1. Require bond or other surety satisfactory to the Director from permit holders in such amount as provided in the rules and regulations of the Board adopted under this article;</p><p>2. Suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew any permit issued pursuant to this article or the rules and regulations adopted under this article; and</p><p>3. Enter into contracts for the operation of the sports betting program, and enter into contracts with other states related to sports betting, provided that a contract awarded or entered into by the Director shall not be assigned by the holder thereof except by specific approval of the Director.</p><p>C. The Director shall:</p><p>1. Certify monthly to the State Comptroller and the Board a full and complete statement of sports betting revenues and expenses for the previous month;</p><p>2. Report monthly to the Governor, the Secretary of Finance, and the Chairmen of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, House Committee on Finance, and House Committee on Appropriations the total sports betting revenues and expenses for the previous month and make an annual report, which shall include a full and complete statement of sports betting revenues and expenses, to the Governor and the General Assembly, including recommendations for changes in this article as the Director and Board deem prudent; and</p><p>3. Report immediately to the Governor and the General Assembly any matters that require immediate changes in the laws of the Commonwealth in order to prevent abuses and evasions of this article or the rules and regulations adopted under this article or to rectify undesirable conditions in connection with the administration or operation of the sports betting program.</p><p>D. In accordance with sports betting program regulations, the Director shall approve methods for sports bettors to fund sports betting accounts, including automated clearing house payments, credit cards, debit cards, wire transfers, and any other method that the Board determines is appropriate for sports betting.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1218'>1218</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1256'>1256</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0351'>351</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0352'>352</a>.</p>