# ยง 32.1-324.3 Uninsured Medical Catastrophe Fund established.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Uninsured Medical Catastrophe Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All contributions from income tax refunds and any other source shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund.</p><p>B. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of providing a source of payment for medical treatment of uninsured medical catastrophes. An uninsured medical catastrophe shall include a life-threatening illness or injury requiring specialized medical treatment, hospitalization, or both. The Board shall promulgate regulations that (i) further define an uninsured medical catastrophe, (ii) establish procedures for distribution of moneys in the Fund to pay for the costs of treating uninsured medical catastrophes, (iii) establish application procedures, and (iv) establish criteria for eligibility for assistance from the Fund and the prioritization and allocation of available moneys among applicants for assistance from the Fund.</p><p>C. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director of Medical Assistance Services.</p><p>1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0998'>998</a>.</p>