# ยง 55.1-1933 Subdivision of units.

<p>A. If the condominium instruments expressly permit the subdivision of any units, then such units may be subdivided in accordance with (i) the provisions of this section and (ii) any restrictions and limitations not otherwise unlawful that the condominium instruments may specify. No unit shall be subdivided unless the condominium instruments expressly permit it.</p><p>B. If the unit owner of any unit that may be subdivided desires to subdivide such unit, then the principal officer of the unit owners' association, or such other officer as the condominium instruments may specify, shall, upon written application of the subdivider, as such unit owner shall hereinafter be referred to in this section, forthwith prepare and execute appropriate instruments pursuant to subsections C, D, and E.</p><p>C. An amendment to the declaration shall assign new identifying numbers to the new units created by the subdivision of a unit and shall allocate to those units, on a reasonable basis acceptable to the subdivider, all of the undivided interest in the common elements appertaining to the subdivided unit. The new units shall jointly share all rights, and shall be equally liable jointly and severally for all obligations, with regard to any limited common elements assigned to the subdivided unit except to the extent that the subdivider may have specified in his written application that all or any portions of any limited common element assigned to the subdivided unit exclusively should be assigned to one or more, but less than all of the new units, in which case the amendment to the declaration shall reflect the desires of the subdivider as expressed in such written application.</p><p>D. An amendment to the bylaws shall allocate to the new units, on a reasonable basis acceptable to the subdivider, the votes in the unit owners' association allocated to the subdivided unit and shall reflect a proportionate allocation to the new units of the liability for common expenses formerly appertaining to the subdivided unit.</p><p>E. Such plats and plans as may be necessary to show the boundaries separating the new units together with their other boundaries shall be prepared, and the new units depicted on such plats and plans shall bear their new identifying numbers. Such plats and plans shall indicate the dimensions of the new units, and the horizontal boundaries of such units, if any, shall be identified on such plats and plans with reference to established datum. Such plats and plans shall be certified as to their accuracy and compliance with the provisions of this subsection (i) by a licensed land surveyor in the case of any plat and (ii) by a licensed architect, licensed engineer, or licensed land surveyor in the case of any plan.</p><p>F. When appropriate instruments in accordance with this section have been prepared, executed, and acknowledged, they shall be recorded by an officer of the unit owners' association following payment by the subdivider of all reasonable costs for the preparation, acknowledgment, and recordation of such instruments. Such instruments are effective when executed by the subdivider and recorded, and the recordation of such instruments is conclusive evidence that the subdivision so effectuated did not violate any restrictions or limitations specified by the condominium instruments and that any reallocations made pursuant to subsections C and D were reasonable.</p><p>G. Notwithstanding the definition of "unit" found in ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1900/'>55.1-1900</a> and the provisions of subsection D of ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1925/'>55.1-1925</a>, this section shall have no application to convertible spaces, and no such space shall be deemed a unit for the purposes of this section. However, this section shall apply to any units formed by the conversion of all or any portion of any such convertible space, and any such unit shall be deemed a unit for the purposes of this section.</p><p>1974, c. 416, ยง 55-79.70; 1991, c. 497; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>