# ยง 59.1-328 Membership camping contracts.

<p>The membership camping operator shall deliver to his purchaser a fully executed copy of the membership camping contract, which contract shall include at least the following information:</p><p>1. The actual date the membership camping contract is executed by the purchaser.</p><p>2. The name of the membership camping operator and the address of his principal place of business.</p><p>3. The total financial obligation imposed upon the purchaser by the contract, including the initial purchase price and any additional charges that the purchaser may be required to pay.</p><p>4. A description of the nature and duration of the membership being purchased, including any interest in real property.</p><p>5. A statement that the membership camping operator, salesperson, or any other person who is in the business of offering for sale or transfer the rights under existing membership camping contracts for a fee is required by the Virginia Membership Camping Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/59.1-311/'>59.1-311</a> et seq.) to provide each purchaser with a copy of the membership camping operator's disclosure statement prior to execution of such contract and that a failure to do so is a violation of the Act.</p><p>6. The following statement under its own paragraph and conspicuously placed:</p><p>"PURCHASER'S NONWAIVABLE RIGHT TO CANCEL" shall appear at the beginning of such paragraph in boldfaced type of a minimum size of 10 points, immediately preceding the following statement, which shall appear in type no smaller than the other provisions of the contract:</p><p>YOU AS THE PURCHASER HAVE A NONWAIVABLE 7-CALENDAR-DAY RIGHT OF CANCELLATION. THIS RIGHT OF CANCELLATION IS FULLY EXPLAINED ON THE COVER SHEET OF THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING OPERATOR'S DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. YOU ARE URGED TO REVIEW THE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT PRIOR TO THE EXECUTION OF THIS CONTRACT FOR A COMPLETE UNDERSTANDING OF YOUR RIGHT OF CANCELLATION. IN ADDITION, AFTER THE INITIAL 7-CALENDAR-DAY CANCELLATION PERIOD, YOU THE PURCHASER OR YOUR SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST MAY TERMINATE YOUR LIABILITY UNDER THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING CONTRACT INCLUDING PAYMENT OF ANY MEMBERSHIP FEES, DUES, AND ASSESSMENTS UPON YOUR GIVING PROPER AND EFFECTIVE NOTICE TO THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING OPERATOR. TO BE EFFECTIVE, THE NOTICE MUST BE IN WRITING AND SENT BY CERTIFIED MAIL, RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED AND IT MUST CONTAIN: (1) YOUR TRANSFER OF ANY AND ALL RIGHTS, TITLE, AND INTEREST YOU HAVE IN THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING CONTRACT AND CAMPGROUND BACK TO THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING OPERATOR; (2) A RECORDABLE DEED, DULY EXECUTED AND NOTARIZED, AND THE RECORDING FEE, IF YOU RECEIVED A RECORDED DEED FROM THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING OPERATOR; (3) PAYMENTS OF (i) THE UNPAID BALANCE OF THE PURCHASE PRICE AND ANY ACCRUED UNPAID INTEREST THEREON AND (ii) ALL UNPAID MEMBERSHIP FEES, DUES, AND ASSESSMENTS WITH ACCRUED INTEREST THEREON PERMITTED BY THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING CONTRACT; AND (4) PAYMENT OF ALL OTHER UNPAID FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS OWED BY YOU THE PURCHASER PURSUANT TO THE MEMBERSHIP CAMPING CONTRACT.</p><p>7. The full name of all salespersons involved in the execution of the membership camping contract.</p><p>8. A statement that contains, in boldfaced type, the name, address, and telephone number of the Virginia Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, stating that that agency is the regulatory agency handling consumer complaints regarding membership campgrounds.</p><p>1985, c. 409; 1992, c. 545; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0024'>24</a>.</p>