# § 15.2-1747 Creation of academies.

<p>A. The governing bodies of two or more localities or other political subdivisions or other public bodies hereinafter collectively referred to as "governmental units," may by ordinance or resolution enter into an agreement which creates a regional criminal justice academy under an appropriate name and title containing the words "criminal justice academy" or "criminal justice training academy" which shall be a public body politic and corporate. Any regional criminal justice training academy created under this article shall also be subject to the requirements of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-102/'>9.1-102</a>.</p><p>B. The agreement shall set forth (i) the name of the academy, (ii) the governmental subdivision in which its principal office shall be situated, (iii) the effective date of the organization of the academy and the duration of the agreement, (iv) the composition of the board of directors of the academy which may include representation of each locality, political subdivision or governmental entity party to the agreement, the members of which shall be the governing body of the academy, (v) the method for selection and the terms of office of the board of directors, (vi) the voting rights of the directors which need not be equal, (vii) the procedure for amendment of the agreement, and (viii) such other matters as the governmental units creating the academy deem appropriate. Sheriffs and members of the governing bodies of the governmental units as well as other public officials or employees may be members of the board of directors.</p><p>C. Any governmental unit not a party to an original agreement creating an academy under this section or § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1300/'>15.2-1300</a> may join the academy only by two-thirds vote of the board of directors of the academy. The governing body of the governmental unit seeking to join the academy shall request membership by resolution or ordinance. The board of directors shall provide for the addition of the joining governmental unit to the academy and the number, terms of office, and voting rights of members of the board of directors, if any, to be appointed by the joining governmental unit.</p><p>D. A governmental unit may withdraw from an academy created under this section or § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1300/'>15.2-1300</a> only by two-thirds vote of the board of directors of the academy. The governing body of the governmental unit seeking to withdraw from the academy shall signify its desire by resolution or ordinance. The board of directors shall consider requests to withdraw in October 2001, and in October of every fifth year thereafter. No requests to withdraw shall be considered at any other time, unless agreed to unanimously. Any withdrawal approved by the board of directors shall be effective on June 30 of the following year. The board of directors shall provide for the conditions of withdrawal.</p><p>D1. The Division of Capitol Police may become a party to an agreement creating an academy or may join an existing academy. The Chief of the Capitol Police is authorized to enter into such agreement as necessary to join an academy. The chief or his designee may serve as a member of the board of directors of such academy, and in accordance with the bylaws of the academy, may serve as a member of the executive committee or other committee of the academy.</p><p>E. The chairman of the academy board shall serve as a member and as the chairman of an executive committee. The composition of the remaining membership of the executive committee, the term of office of its members and any alternate members, procedures for the conduct of its meetings, and any limitations upon the general authority of the executive committee shall be established in the bylaws of the academy. The bylaws shall also establish any other special standing committees, advisory, technical or otherwise, as the board of directors shall deem desirable for the transaction of its affairs.</p><p>1993, c. 935, § 15.1-159.7:1; 1997, c. 587; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0772'>772</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0350'>350</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0516'>516</a>.</p>