# § 13.1-749.1 Election to purchase in lieu of dissolution.

<p>A. Unless otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation, in a proceeding under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a> to dissolve a corporation, the corporation may elect or, if it fails to elect, one or more shareholders may elect to purchase all shares owned by the petitioning shareholder at the fair value of the shares. An election pursuant to this section shall be irrevocable unless the court determines that it is equitable to set aside or modify the election.</p><p>B. An election to purchase pursuant to this section may be filed with the court at any time within 90 days after the filing of the petition under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a> or at such later time as the court in its discretion may allow. If the election to purchase is filed by one or more shareholders, the corporation shall, within 10 days thereafter, give written notice to all shareholders, other than the petitioner. The notice shall state the name and number of shares owned by the petitioner and the name and number of shares owned by each electing shareholder and shall advise the recipients of their right to join in the election to purchase shares in accordance with this section. Shareholders who wish to participate shall file notice of their intention to join in the purchase no later than 30 days after the effectiveness of the notice to them. All shareholders who have filed an election or notice of their intention to participate in the election to purchase thereby become parties to the proceeding and shall participate in the purchase in proportion to their ownership of outstanding shares as of the date the first election was filed, unless they otherwise agree or the court otherwise directs. After an election has been filed by the corporation or one or more shareholders, the proceeding under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a> may not be discontinued or settled, nor may the petitioning shareholder sell or otherwise dispose of the petitioner's shares, unless the court determines that it would be equitable to the corporation and the shareholders, other than the petitioner, to permit such discontinuance, settlement, sale, or other disposition.</p><p>C. If, within 60 days of the filing of the first election, the parties reach agreement as to the fair value and terms of purchase of the petitioner's shares, the court shall enter an order directing the purchase of petitioner's shares upon the terms and conditions agreed to by the parties.</p><p>D. If the parties are unable to reach an agreement as provided for in subsection C, the court, upon application of any party, shall stay the proceedings under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a> and determine the fair value of the petitioner's shares as of the day before the date on which the petition under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a> was filed or as of such other date as the court deems appropriate under the circumstances. The determination of fair value shall include consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances, including, unless the court determines it would be unjust or inequitable to do so, (i) the petitioner's minority status, (ii) the marketability of the petitioner's shares, (iii) the relevant terms of any shareholders' agreement, and (iv) if the court finds that the value of the corporation has been diminished by the wrongful conduct of controlling shareholders, the petitioner's proportionate claim for any compensable corporate injury. In determining the fair value, the court may, in its discretion, select an appraiser to appraise the fair value of the petitioner's shares and shall assess the cost of any such appraisal to the parties, to the corporation, or both, as the equities may appear to the court.</p><p>E. Upon determining the fair value of the shares, the court shall enter an order directing the purchase upon such terms and conditions as the court deems appropriate, which may include payment of the purchase price in installments, where necessary in the interests of equity, provision for security to assure payment of the purchase price and any additional costs, fees and expenses as may have been awarded, and, if the shares are to be purchased by shareholders, the allocation of shares among them. In allocating petitioner's shares among holders of different classes of shares, the court should attempt to preserve the existing distribution of voting rights among holders of different classes insofar as practicable and may direct that holders of a specific class or classes shall not participate in the purchase. Interest may be allowed at the rate and from the date determined by the court to be equitable, but if the court finds that the refusal of the petitioning shareholder to accept an offer of payment was arbitrary or otherwise not in good faith, no interest shall be allowed. If the court finds that the petitioning shareholder had probable grounds for relief under subdivision A 1 b or d of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a>, it may award expenses to the petitioning shareholder.</p><p>F. Upon entry of an order under subsection C or E, the court shall dismiss the petition to dissolve the corporation under subdivision A 1 of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-747/'>13.1-747</a> and the petitioning shareholder shall no longer have any rights or status as a shareholder of the corporation, except the right to receive the amounts awarded to him by the order of the court, which shall be enforceable in the same manner as any other judgment.</p><p>G. The purchase ordered pursuant to subsection E shall be made within 10 days after the date the order becomes final.</p><p>H. Any payment by the corporation pursuant to an order under subsection C or E, other than an award of expenses pursuant to subsection E, is subject to the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-653/'>13.1-653</a>.</p><p>2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0611'>611</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>.</p>