# § 6.2-1117 Par value of shares; payment of shares; reacquisitions of shares or acceptance thereof as security; how subscriptions to stock to be paid; disposition of money received before institution opens; stock option plans.

<p>A. Shares of stock issued by a stock institution shall be paid for in full in cash at not less than their par value upon issuance or, in the case of a stock institution then actively conducting operations, in property or services valued, with the approval of the Commission, at an amount not less than the aggregate value of the shares issued in exchange therefor. A stock institution may not purchase, redeem or otherwise reacquire shares of stock that it has issued and may not accept its shares of stock as security. A stock institution shall have the power to redeem or otherwise reacquire shares of its common or preferred stock to the same extent as commercial banks incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth are permitted to do under this title.</p><p>B. Subscriptions to the capital stock of a stock institution shall be paid in money at not less than par. No stock institution shall begin business until the amount specified in its certificate of authority to commence business has been received by it.</p><p>C. All money received for subscriptions to or for purchases of stock of a stock institution before it opens for business shall be deposited in an escrow account in an insured financial institution or invested in United States government obligations, under the joint control of two organizing directors of the stock institution, both of whom shall be bonded for an amount not less than the total amount of money under their control. Such funds, together with any income thereon, less such organizational expenses as have been approved by the stock institution's board of directors, shall be remitted to the stock institution on the day it opens for business. If the stock institution is denied a certificate of authority, is refused insurance of accounts, or it is otherwise determined that the stock institution will not open for business, such funds, after payment of any amount owing for expenses in connection with such attempted organization, including reasonable consulting fees, attorney fees, salaries, filing fees, and other expenses, shall be refunded to subscribers or shareholders. The directors of the stock institution, individually, jointly and severally, shall be liable for any failure of the savings institution to refund such funds to the subscribers or shareholders. This liability may be enforced by a suit in equity instituted by one or more of the subscribers or stockholders on behalf of all against the stock institution and one or more of its directors.</p><p>D. The requirement that capital stock be paid in money shall not be construed to prohibit the establishment, as otherwise authorized by law, of stock option plans and stock purchase plans, and the issuance of stock pursuant to such plans. Such plans shall be established only after the stock institution has opened for business. Any such plan with respect to a stock association shall be established as follows:</p><p>1. The board of directors shall by resolution propose the stock option or stock purchase plan. The plan shall describe any effect the adoption of the plan is expected to have on the value of issued and outstanding shares of the association;</p><p>2. Notice of a meeting of stockholders, stating that the purpose or one of the purposes of the meeting is to consider the plan so proposed by the board of directors, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereon within the time and in the manner provided in Chapter 9 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-601/'>13.1-601</a> et seq.) of Title 13.1 for giving of notice of meetings of stockholders. A copy of the plan shall be included with such notice; and</p><p>3. At such meeting, the plan shall be adopted if approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of more than two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote thereon.</p><p>Any such plan with respect to a savings bank shall be adopted if approved by a majority vote of the institution's shareholders. In no event shall such a plan established by a stock savings bank provide that a stock option be granted at a price which is less than 100 percent of the book value per share of the stock as shown by the stock institution's last published statement prior to the granting of the option.</p><p>Code 1950, § 6-201.12; 1960, c. 402; 1966, c. 584, § 6.1-137; 1972, c. 796, § 6.1-195.11; 1981, c. 62; 1984, c. 136; 1985, c. 425, § 6.1-194.11; 1991, c. 230, § 6.1-194.113; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>