# ยง 36-97 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context or subject matter requires otherwise, the following words or terms shall have the meaning herein ascribed to them, respectively:</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>"Review Board" means the State Building Code Technical Review Board.</p><p>"Building Code" means the Uniform Statewide Building Code and building regulations adopted and promulgated pursuant thereto.</p><p>"Code provisions" means the provisions of the Uniform Statewide Building Code as adopted and promulgated by the Board, and the amendments thereof as adopted and promulgated by such Board from time to time.</p><p>"Building regulations" means any law, rule, resolution, regulation, ordinance or code, general or special, or compilation thereof, heretofore or hereafter enacted or adopted by the Commonwealth or any county or municipality, including departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, or other agencies thereof, relating to construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, repair, maintenance, or use of structures and buildings and installation of equipment therein. The term does not include zoning ordinances or other land use controls that do not affect the manner of construction or materials to be used in the erection, alteration or repair of a building or structure.</p><p>"Municipality" means any city or town in this Commonwealth.</p><p>"Local governing body" means the governing body of any city, county or town in this Commonwealth.</p><p>"Local building department" means the agency or agencies of any local governing body charged with the administration, supervision, or enforcement of the Building Code and regulations, approval of plans, inspection of buildings, or issuance of permits, licenses, certificates or similar documents.</p><p>"State agency" means any state department, board, bureau, commission, or agency of this Commonwealth.</p><p>"Building" means a combination of any materials, whether portable or fixed, having a roof to form a structure for the use or occupancy by persons, or property. The word "building" shall be construed as though followed by the words "or part or parts thereof" unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. "Building" shall not include roadway tunnels and bridges owned by the Department of Transportation, which shall be governed by construction and design standards approved by the Commonwealth Transportation Board.</p><p>"Equipment" means plumbing, heating, electrical, ventilating, air-conditioning and refrigeration equipment, elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, and other mechanical additions or installations.</p><p>"Farm building or structure" means a building or structure not used for residential purposes, located on property where farming operations take place, and used primarily for any of the following uses or combination thereof:</p><p>1. Storage, handling, production, display, sampling or sale of agricultural, horticultural, floricultural or silvicultural products produced in the farm;</p><p>2. Sheltering, raising, handling, processing or sale of agricultural animals or agricultural animal products;</p><p>3. Business or office uses relating to the farm operations;</p><p>4. Use of farm machinery or equipment or maintenance or storage of vehicles, machinery or equipment on the farm;</p><p>5. Storage or use of supplies and materials used on the farm; or</p><p>6. Implementation of best management practices associated with farm operations.</p><p>"Construction" means the construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or conversion of buildings and structures.</p><p>"Owner" means the owner or owners of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee, or lessee in control of a building or structure.</p><p>"Director" means the Director of the Department of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>"Structure" means an assembly of materials forming a construction for occupancy or use including stadiums, gospel and circus tents, reviewing stands, platforms, stagings, observation towers, radio towers, water tanks, storage tanks (underground and aboveground), trestles, piers, wharves, swimming pools, amusement devices, storage bins, and other structures of this general nature but excluding water wells. The word "structure" shall be construed as though followed by the words "or part or parts thereof" unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. "Structure" shall not include roadway tunnels and bridges owned by the Department of Transportation, which shall be governed by construction and design standards approved by the Commonwealth Transportation Board.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>1972, c. 829; 1974, cc. 622, 668; 1975, c. 394; 1977, cc. 423, 613; 1978, c. 703; 1986, c. 401; 1993, c. 662; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0256'>256</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0755'>755</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0341'>341</a>.</p>