# § 45.2-736  Hoisting ropes.

<p>A. The hoisting rope on any cage or trip shall be adequate in size to handle the load. A rope that is used to hoist or lower coal and other materials shall have a factor of safety of at least five to one. A rope that is used to hoist or lower miners shall have a factor of safety of at least 10 to one.</p><p>B. Each hoisting rope shall have at least three full turns remaining on the drum when extended to its maximum working length. The rope shall make at least one full turn on the drum shaft, or around the spoke of the drum in the case of a free drum, and be fastened securely by means of clamps.</p><p>C. Each hoisting rope shall be fastened to its load by (i) a spelter-filled socket or (ii) a thimble and an adequate number of clamps that are properly spaced and installed.</p><p>D. Any cage, mancar, or trip used for hoisting or lowering miners with a single rope shall be provided with two bridle chains or wire ropes connected securely to the rope at least three feet above the socket or thimble and clamps and to the crosspiece of the cage or to the mancar or trip. Multiple hoisting ropes installed pursuant to subsection C may be used in lieu of two bridle chains.</p><p>E. If equipment or supplies are being hoisted or lowered in the slope, safety chains or wire ropes shall be provided and connected securely to the hoist rope. In addition, visible or audible warning devices shall be installed in the slope where they may be seen or heard by any miner approaching the slope track entry from any access.</p><p>Code 1950, § 45-68.4; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, §§ 45.1-68, 45.1-89.1; 1972, c. 784; 1978, c. 729; 1983, c. 111; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, § 45.1-161.154; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0826'>826</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0862'>862</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>