# § 63.2-305 Advisory boards.

<p>A. If the governing body of a city or county or the governing bodies of any combination of cities and counties participating in a district designate, under the provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-302/'>63.2-302</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-304/'>63.2-304</a> or § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-307/'>63.2-307</a>, a local government official as constituting the local board, such governing body or bodies shall appoint a board to serve in an advisory capacity to such local government official with respect to the duties and functions imposed upon him by this title.</p><p>Each such advisory board shall consist of no fewer than five and no more than thirteen members. In the case of an advisory board established for a district, there shall be at least one member on the board from each county and city in the district. The members shall be appointed initially for terms of from one to four years so as to provide for the balanced overlapping of the terms of the membership thereon. Subsequent appointments shall be for a term of four years each, except that appointments to fill vacancies that occur during terms shall be for the remainder of these unexpired terms. Appointments to fill unexpired terms shall not be considered full terms, and such persons shall be eligible to be appointed to two consecutive full terms. No person shall serve more than two consecutive full terms. The local government official shall be an ex officio member, without vote, of the advisory board.</p><p>The advisory board shall elect its own chairman and shall meet at least bimonthly. In addition to regularly scheduled meetings, it may meet at the call of the chairman or on the petition of at least one-half of the members.</p><p>B. The powers and duties of the advisory board shall be:</p><p>1. To interest itself in all matters pertaining to the public assistance and social services needed by people of the political subdivision or subdivisions served by the local department;</p><p>2. To monitor the formulation and implementation of public assistance and social services programs by the local department;</p><p>3. To meet with the local government official who constitutes the local board at least four times a year for the purpose of making recommendations on policy matters concerning the local department;</p><p>4. To make an annual report to the governing body or bodies, concurrent with the budget presentation of the local department, concerning the administration of the public assistance and social services programs; and</p><p>5. To submit to the governing body or bodies, from time to time, other reports that the advisory board deems appropriate.</p><p>1977, c. 36, § 63.1-43.1; 1981, c. 264; 1984, c. 586; 1989, c. 356; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>.</p>