# ยง 3.2-2301 Soybean Board; composition and appointment of members.

<p>The Soybean Board, established by the passage of a referendum held pursuant to Chapter 431 of the 1970 Acts of Assembly, is continued within the Department. The Soybean Board shall be composed of 11 members appointed by the Governor from nominations by the several producer organizations representing soybean producers, the appointments to be subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The several producer organizations representing soybean producers shall nominate at least two producers from each production area of soybeans. The Governor shall appoint at least one producer from each production area as described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-2310/'>3.2-2310</a>, and the membership of the Soybean Board shall always be composed of a majority of producers. The Governor shall appoint one member, if available, from each of the following classifications: seedsman, producer, processor, country buyer, and exporter. Such appointments shall be made from nominations from the several producer organizations representing soybean producers.</p><p>Each organization shall submit nominations at least 90 days before the expiration of the member's term for which the nomination or recommendation is being provided. If the organizations fail to provide the nominations at least 90 days before the expiration date pursuant to this section, the Governor may appoint other nominees that meet the foregoing criteria.</p><p>1970, c. 431, ยง 3.1-684.13; 1974, c. 297; 1978, c. 540; 1985, c. 448; 1987, c. 476; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>.</p>