# ยง 58.1-1406 Dealers' certificates of registration.

<p>A. Every person who qualifies as a dealer under Chapter 8 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-800/'>29.1-800</a> et seq.) of Title 29.1 and desires to transfer ownership in watercraft without obtaining a certificate of title shall file with the Tax Commissioner an application for a certificate of registration for each place of business in this Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Every application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form prescribed by the Commissioner and shall set forth (i) the name under which the applicant transacts or intends to transact business, (ii) the location of his place or places of business, and (iii) such other information as the Commissioner may require. The application shall be signed by the owner if a natural person; in the case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner; and, in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the application.</p><p>C. When the required application has been made the Commissioner shall issue to each applicant a separate certificate of registration for each place of business within this Commonwealth. A certificate of registration is not assignable and is valid only for the person in whose name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place designated therein. It shall be at all times conspicuously displayed at the place for which issued.</p><p>D. Whenever any person fails to comply with any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation of the Tax Commissioner relating thereto, the Commissioner, upon hearing after giving such person ten days' notice in writing, specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring him to show cause why his certificate of registration should not be revoked or suspended, may revoke or suspend any one or more of the certificates of registration held by such person. The notice may be personally served or served by registered mail directed to the last known address of such person.</p><p>E. Only those dealers who hold a current certificate of registration hereunder shall be authorized to transfer ownership of a watercraft without obtaining a certificate of title therein, and paying the tax imposed by this chapter.</p><p>F. If the holder of a certificate of registration ceases to conduct his business at the place specified in his certificate, the certificate shall thereupon expire. The holder of such certificate shall inform the Commissioner in writing within thirty days after he has ceased to conduct business at such place that he has so ceased. However, if the holder of a certificate of registration desires to change his place of business to another place in this Commonwealth, he shall so inform the Commissioner in writing and his certificate shall be revised accordingly without charge.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-685.43; 1981, c. 405; 1984, c. 675.</p>