# ยง 4.1-504 Sale of brewery.

<p>A. Except for discontinuance of a brand or for good cause as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/4.1-505/'>4.1-505</a>, the purchaser of a brewery shall become obligated to all of the terms and conditions of the selling brewery's agreements with distributors in effect on the date of purchase. The purchaser of a brand from a brewery shall become obligated to all of the terms and conditions of the selling brewery's agreement with distributors concerning that brand. Whenever such a purchase of a brand results in the creation of a dual distributorship, the provisions of subdivisions 1 and 2 of subsection B will determine the distribution rights to such brand or any extension thereof. For the limited purpose of making such determination, the brewery selling such brand shall be a nonsurviving brewery and the purchaser shall be a surviving brewery.</p><p>B. For purposes of this section, when a purchase of a brewery by or on behalf of another brewery causes the selling brewery to cease to exist as an independent legal entity, the selling brewery shall be regarded as a nonsurviving brewery and the brewery on whose behalf the purchase was made shall be regarded as a surviving brewery. The following rules shall apply in order to determine (i) the distribution rights to any brands which are first marketed in the Commonwealth by the surviving brewery on or after July 1, 1985, with respect to a dual distributorship created prior to July 1, 1985, and (ii) the distribution rights to any brands, regardless of when they were first marketed in the Commonwealth, with respect to a dual distributorship created on or after July 1, 1985:</p><p>1. If the surviving brewery distributes in the Commonwealth any brand or brands of the nonsurviving brewery which that brewery marketed in the Commonwealth at any time during the one-year period ending on the day the purchase agreement was made, these brands shall be distributed through those beer wholesalers who were distributors in the Commonwealth for the nonsurviving brewery. Any brands which the surviving brewery had marketed in the Commonwealth prior to the purchase shall be distributed through those beer wholesalers who were wholesalers of the surviving brewery prior to the purchase.</p><p>2. If the surviving brewery decides to market in the Commonwealth a new brand which is clearly an extension of a brand already assigned to beer wholesalers in the Commonwealth, the new brand shall be distributed through those wholesalers who distribute the brand of which the new brand is an extension.</p><p>3. If the surviving brewery decides to introduce in the Commonwealth a new brand which was not marketed in the Commonwealth at any time during the one-year period ending on the date the purchase agreement was made and which is not a brand extension, the surviving brewery shall market the new brand either through a distributor of the nonsurviving brewery or through a distributor who was a distributor of the surviving brewery prior to the purchase, as the brewery may see fit in any territory.</p><p>C. Subsection B shall not apply to determine distributorship rights to any brands or brand extensions which were marketed in the Commonwealth prior to July 1, 1985, with respect to any dual distributorship created prior to July 1, 1985.</p><p>1985, c. 549, ยง 4-118.6:1; 1993, c. 866.</p>