# § 64.2-116 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise:</p><p>"Account" means an arrangement under a terms-of-service agreement in which a custodian carries, maintains, processes, receives, or stores a digital asset of the user or provides goods or services to the user.</p><p>"Agent" means a person granted authority to act for a principal under a power of attorney, whether denominated an agent, attorney-in-fact, or otherwise. "Agent" includes an original agent, a coagent, a successor agent, and a person to which an agent's authority is delegated.</p><p>"Carries" means engages in the transmission of an electronic communication.</p><p>"Catalog of electronic communications" means information that identifies each person with which a user has had an electronic communication, the time and date of the communication, and the electronic address of the person.</p><p>"Conservator" means a person appointed by a court to manage the estate of a living individual. "Conservator" includes a limited conservator.</p><p>"Content of an electronic communication" means information concerning the substance or meaning of the communication that (i) has been sent or received by a user; (ii) is in electronic storage by a custodian providing an electronic communication service to the public or is carried or maintained by a custodian providing a remote computing service to the public; and (iii) is not readily accessible to the public.</p><p>"Court" means the circuit court for the county or city having jurisdiction over the fiduciary in matters relating to the content of this article.</p><p>"Custodian" means a person who carries, maintains, processes, receives, or stores a digital asset of a user.</p><p>"Designated recipient" means a person chosen by a user using an online tool to administer digital assets of the user.</p><p>"Digital asset" means an electronic record in which an individual has a right or interest. "Digital asset" does not include an underlying asset or liability unless the asset or liability is itself an electronic record.</p><p>"Electronic" means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.</p><p>"Electronic communication" has the same meaning as the definition provided in 18 U.S.C. § 2510(12).</p><p>"Electronic communication service" means a custodian that provides to a user the ability to send or receive an electronic communication.</p><p>"Fiduciary" means an original, additional, or successor personal representative, conservator, guardian, agent, or trustee.</p><p>"Guardian" means a person appointed by a court to manage the person of a living individual adult pursuant to Chapter 20 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-2000/'>64.2-2000</a> et seq.) or a person appointed by a court to manage the estate of a minor pursuant to Chapter 17 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1700/'>64.2-1700</a> et seq.). "Guardian" includes a limited guardian.</p><p>"Information" means data, text, images, videos, sounds, codes, computer programs, software, databases, or something that is substantially similar.</p><p>"Online tool" means an electronic service provided by a custodian that allows the user, in an agreement distinct from the terms-of-service agreement between the custodian and user, to provide directions for disclosure or nondisclosure of digital assets to a third person.</p><p>"Person" means an individual; estate; business or nonprofit entity; public corporation; government or governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality; or other legal entity.</p><p>"Personal representative" means an executor, administrator, curator, designated successor or successor under the Virginia Small Estate Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-600/'>64.2-600</a> et seq.), or person that performs substantially the same function under the laws of the Commonwealth other than this article.</p><p>"Power of attorney" means a record that grants an agent authority to act in the place of a principal.</p><p>"Principal" means an individual who grants authority to an agent in a power of attorney.</p><p>"Protected person" means an individual for whom a conservator or guardian has been appointed. "Protected person" includes an individual for whom an application for the appointment of a conservator or guardian is pending.</p><p>"Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.</p><p>"Remote computing service" means a custodian that provides to a user computer-processing services or the storage of digital assets by means of an electronic communications system, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 2510(14).</p><p>"Terms-of-service agreement" means an agreement that controls the relationship between a user and a custodian.</p><p>"Trustee" means a fiduciary with legal title to property under an agreement or declaration that creates a beneficial interest in another. "Trustee" includes a successor trustee.</p><p>"User" means a person that has an account with a custodian.</p><p>"Will" includes a codicil, testamentary instrument that only appoints an executor, and instrument that revokes or revises a testamentary instrument.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0033'>33</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0080'>80</a>.</p>