# ยง 3.2-3618 Inspection, sampling and analysis; penalty.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall: (i) sample, inspect, analyze, and test any regulated product distributed within the Commonwealth; (ii) inspect storage facilities where such regulated product is stored; (iii) monitor and, where the Commissioner deems it necessary, regulate the manufacturing procedures of such regulated products as affected by best management practices for manufacturing containment and considerations of environmental factors; and (iv) allocate adequate personnel to the major farm fertilizer consuming areas of the state to carry out his duties under this chapter as such duties relate to insuring the quality, analysis, and quantity of fertilizer sold and distributed in the state.</p><p>The Commissioner is authorized to enter during operating hours the premises or carriers of any person subject to regulation under this chapter, in order to have access to: (i) the regulated product, storage facilities and manufacturing practices; and (ii) records relating to the distribution and storage of regulated product.</p><p>B. Any person who shall hinder or obstruct in any way the Commissioner in the performance of his official duties is guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.</p><p>C. The Commissioner shall use the methods of sampling and analysis adopted by the Commissioner or the Board.</p><p>D. The Commissioner, in determining for administrative purposes whether any fertilizer is deficient in plant food, shall be guided solely by the official sample. The Commissioner shall obtain and analyze samples as specified in subsection C of this section.</p><p>E. The Commissioner may distribute information regarding official analysis of fertilizers. The Commissioner shall retain official samples establishing an assessment for variance from guarantee for a minimum of 90 days from issuance of a deficiency report.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0740'>740</a>, ยง 3.1-106.7; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0104'>104</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>