# § 18.2-340.26:3 Electronic gaming; penalty.

<p>A. The Department may authorize a social organization to conduct electronic gaming (i) within its social quarters and (ii) elsewhere on the premises of its primary location. Any such authorized social organization may lease its premises to any qualified organization for the purpose of conducting electronic gaming. A qualified organization that leases the premises of a social organization pursuant to this section shall be subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the Board. No other electronic gaming shall be allowed under this article. Any person who conducts or participates in electronic gaming that is not authorized under this section shall be subject to the penalties specified in § <a href='https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-340.37/'>18.2-340.37</a>.</p><p>B. A social organization may request authorization from the Department to conduct electronic gaming pursuant to this section in accordance with the procedures established under §§ <a href='/vacode/18.2-340.20/'>18.2-340.20</a> and <a href='/vacode/18.2-340.25/'>18.2-340.25</a>. Any fee charged by the Department for the purpose of such authorization shall be in addition to any fee charged for a charitable gaming permit. Any charitable gaming permit that also authorizes a social organization to conduct electronic gaming shall identify the expiration date of such authorization and the number of electronic gaming devices authorized at the location.</p><p>C. A social organization and any qualified organization that leases the premises of a social organization pursuant to this section are prohibited from advertising any electronic gaming activities to the general public.</p><p>D. The Department may authorize a maximum of 18 electronic gaming devices at a location. Each such device shall bear a mark indicating it has been authorized and approved by the Department.</p><p>E. An electronic gaming manufacturer that has been issued a permit by the Department in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/18.2-340.34/'>18.2-340.34</a> shall report all electronic gaming adjusted gross receipts pursuant to the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title18.2/chapter8/section18.2-340.30:2/'>18.2-340.30:2</a>.</p><p>F. The use of electronic gaming devices utilizing multiple video monitors or touchscreens shall be limited to one player at a time.</p><p>G. No social organization or qualified organization leasing the premises of a social organization shall allow any individual younger than 21 years of age to participate in electronic gaming. No individual younger than 21 years of age shall participate in electronic gaming or otherwise use an electronic device to play or redeem any instant bingo, pull tabs, or seal cards.</p><p>H. No social organization or any qualified organization leasing the premises of a social organization shall extend lines of credit or accept any credit or other electronic fund transfer other than debit cards in payment of any charges or assessments for players to participate in electronic gaming.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0722'>722</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>.</p>