# § 55.1-1300 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Abandoned manufactured home" means a manufactured home occupying a manufactured home lot pursuant to a written agreement under which (i) the tenant has defaulted in rent or (ii) the landlord has the right to terminate the written rental agreement pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1249/'>55.1-1249</a>.</p><p>"Guest or invitee" means a person, other than the tenant, who has the permission of the tenant to visit but not to occupy the premises.</p><p>"Landlord" means the manufactured home park owner or the lessor or sublessor of a manufactured home park. "Landlord" also means a manufactured home park operator who fails to disclose the name of such owner, lessor, or sublessor as provided in § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1216/'>55.1-1216</a>.</p><p>"Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, that in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained in the structure.</p><p>"Manufactured home lot" means a parcel of land within the boundaries of a manufactured home park provided for the placement of a single manufactured home and the exclusive use of its occupants.</p><p>"Manufactured home owner" means the owner of a manufactured home.</p><p>"Manufactured home park" means a parcel of land under single or common ownership upon which five or more manufactured homes are located on a continual, nonrecreational basis together with any structure, equipment, road, or facility intended for use incidental to the occupancy of the manufactured homes. "Manufactured home park" does not include a premises used solely for storage or display of uninhabited manufactured homes or a premises occupied solely by a landowner and members of his family.</p><p>"Manufactured home park operator" means a person employed or contracted by a manufactured home park owner or landlord to manage a manufactured home park.</p><p>"Manufactured home park owner" means a person who owns land that accommodates a manufactured home park.</p><p>"Owner" means one or more persons, jointly or severally, in whom is vested (i) all or part of the legal title to the property or (ii) all or part of the beneficial ownership and right to present use and enjoyment of the premises. "Owner" includes a mortgagee in possession.</p><p>"Reasonable charges in addition to rent" means any routine maintenance and utility charges for which the tenant is liable under the rental agreement.</p><p>"Rent" means payments made by the tenant to the landlord for use of a manufactured home lot and other facilities or services provided by the landlord.</p><p>"Rental agreement" means any agreement, written or oral, and valid rules and regulations adopted in conformance with § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1228/'>55.1-1228</a> embodying the terms and conditions concerning the use and occupancy of a manufactured home lot and premises and other facilities or services provided by the landlord.</p><p>"Secured party" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/8.9A-102/'>8.9A-102</a>.</p><p>"Security interest" means the same as that term is defined in § <a href='/vacode/8.1A-201/'>8.1A-201</a>.</p><p>"Tenant" means a person entitled as under a rental agreement to occupy a manufactured home lot to the exclusion of others.</p><p>1975, c. 535, § 55-248.41; 1983, c. 386; 1991, c. 500; 1992, c. 709; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0408'>408</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>