# ยง 46.2-725.3 Special license plates for recipients of certain military decorations.

<p>A. No special license plate for recipients of a military decoration shall be considered by the General Assembly unless and until the person or entity seeking the authorization of such special plate has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the General Assembly the order of precedence of such military decoration as determined by the federal Department of Defense or other relevant federal agency.</p><p>B. Any special license plate for recipients of a military decoration falling below the Medal of Honor and above the Purple Heart in order of precedence shall be authorized for issuance by the Department with a $10 one-time fee in addition to the prescribed cost of state license plates. Any special license plate for recipients of a military decoration falling below the Purple Heart in the order of precedence shall be authorized for issuance by the Department with a $10 annual special license plate fee in addition to the prescribed cost of state license plates. Special license plates for recipients of the Purple Heart shall be issued as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-742/'>46.2-742</a>. The Department is authorized to issue an additional plate reflecting the "V" for Valor for any plate currently issued by the Department reflecting a military decoration that the federal Department of Defense or other relevant federal agency has determined is eligible for the "V" for Valor Device. The Department shall charge only the prescribed cost of state license plates for any plate design reflecting the "V" for Valor Device.</p><p>C. Notwithstanding ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-725/'>46.2-725</a>, special license plates for the recipients of a military decoration are exempt from subdivisions B 1 and 2 of ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-725/'>46.2-725</a>. Unremarried surviving spouses of individuals eligible to receive such special license plates are also authorized to receive such special license plates.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0145'>145</a>.</p>