# ยง 38.2-1845.13 Contract between public adjuster and insured.

<p>A. Public adjusters shall ensure that all contracts for their services are in writing and contain the following terms:</p><p>1. Legible full name of the public adjuster signing the contract, as specified in the records of the Commission;</p><p>2. Public adjuster's permanent home state business address and phone number;</p><p>3. Public adjuster's license number, as specified in the records of the Commission;</p><p>4. Title "Public Adjuster Contract";</p><p>5. The insured's full name and street address and the insurance company's name and policy number;</p><p>6. A description of the loss and a description of the location of the loss, if applicable;</p><p>7. A description of services to be provided to the insured by the public adjuster and all terms and conditions of the engagement;</p><p>8. Signatures of the public adjuster and the insured;</p><p>9. The date the contract was signed by the public adjuster and the date the contract was signed by the insured;</p><p>10. Attestation language stating that the public adjuster is fully bonded pursuant to state law;</p><p>11. The full salary, fee, commission, compensation, or other consideration the public adjuster is to receive for services, subject to the provisions of ยง <a href='/vacode/38.2-1845.14/'>38.2-1845.14</a>; and</p><p>12. The right to rescind the contract within three business days after the contract has been signed by the insured or, in the event of a catastrophic disaster, the right to rescind the contract within five business days after the contract has been signed by the insured. Such rescission shall be in writing and mailed or delivered to the public adjuster at the address shown in the contract. Within 15 business days following receipt of the notice to rescind, the public adjuster shall return to the insured anything of value given by the insured under the contract.</p><p>B. The public adjuster shall provide a separate disclosure document to the insured stating (i) the insured is not required to hire a public adjuster but has the right to do so; (ii) the public adjuster is not an employee or representative of the insurer; (iii) the salary, fee, commission, or other consideration is the obligation of the insured, not the insurer; (iv) property insurance policies obligate the insured to present a claim to the insurer for consideration; (v) the insured has the right to initiate direct communications with the insured's attorney, the insurer, the insurer's adjuster, the insurer's attorney, and any other person regarding the settlement of the insured's claim; and (vi) the insured may contact the Commission for the licensing status of the public adjuster.</p><p>C. A public adjuster shall provide the insurer with a notification letter, which has been signed by the insured, authorizing the public adjuster to represent the insured's interest.</p><p>D. No public adjuster shall enter into a contract that prevents an insured from pursuing any civil remedy after the revocation or cancellation period set forth in subdivision A 12.</p><p>E. Any contract for public adjusting services that is entered into by an insured with a person who is in violation of ยง <a href='/vacode/38.2-1845.2/'>38.2-1845.2</a> may be voided at the option of the insured.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0735'>735</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0627'>627</a>.</p>