# ยง 15.2-901.1 Locality may provide for control of running bamboo; civil penalty.

<p>A. For purposes of this section, "running bamboo" means any bamboo that is characterized by aggressive spreading behavior, including species in the genus Phyllostachys.</p><p>B. Any locality may, by ordinance, provide that:</p><p>1. No landowner shall allow running bamboo to grow without proper upkeep and appropriate containment measures, including barriers or trenching; and</p><p>2. No landowner shall allow running bamboo to spread from his property to any public right-of-way or adjoining property not owned by the landowner.</p><p>C. A violation of a running bamboo ordinance authorized by this section shall be subject to a civil penalty, not to exceed $50 for the first violation or violations arising from the same set of operative facts. The civil penalty for subsequent violations not arising from the same set of operative facts within 12 months of the first violation shall not exceed $200. Each business day during which the same violation is found to have existed shall constitute a separate offense. In no event shall a series of specified violations arising from the same set of operative facts result in civil penalties that exceed a total of $3,000 in a 12-month period.</p><p>D. No violation of a running bamboo ordinance arising from the same set of operative facts shall be subject to a civil penalty under both (i) an ordinance adopted pursuant to this section and (ii) an ordinance adopted pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-901/'>15.2-901</a>.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0213'>213</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0392'>392</a>.</p>