# ยง 15.2-4402 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Advisory committee" means the agricultural and forestal advisory committee.</p><p>"Agricultural products" means crops, livestock and livestock products, including but not limited to field crops, fruits, vegetables, horticultural specialties, cattle, sheep, hogs, goats, horses, poultry, furbearing animals, milk, eggs and furs.</p><p>"Agricultural production" means the production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock and livestock products, but not processing or retail merchandising of crops, livestock or livestock products.</p><p>"Agriculturally and forestally significant land" means land that has historically produced agricultural and forestal products, or land that an advisory committee considers good agricultural and forestal land based upon such factors as soil quality, topography, climate, markets, farm improvements, agricultural and forestry economics and technology, and other relevant factors.</p><p>"Clerk" means the clerk of the local circuit court or the clerk of the local governing body.</p><p>"Forestal products" includes, but is not limited to, lumber, pulpwood, posts, firewood, Christmas trees and other wood products for sale or for farm use.</p><p>"Landowner" or "owner of land" means any person holding a fee simple interest in property but does not mean the holder of an easement.</p><p>"Participating locality" means the Counties of Albemarle, Augusta, Fairfax, Hanover, James City, Loudoun, Prince William, Roanoke, and Rockingham.</p><p>1982, c. 374, ยง 15.1-1513.3; 1991, c. 67; 1992, c. 344; 1997, c. 587; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0419'>419</a>.</p>