# § 55.1-2541 Determinations; appeal procedures; regulations of administrator.

<p>A. For the purposes of this section, "jeopardized by delay" means a finding that the applicant intends to undertake a wrongful act with the intent to prejudice, or to render ineffectual, future proceedings to enforce this chapter.</p><p>B. The administrator may adopt necessary regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>C. If the administrator ascertains that any person has failed to pay or deliver abandoned property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, he shall issue a written notice to such person demanding remittance of the property and payment of any penalties and interest prescribed by law. Every such notice shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation of the holder's right to secure an administrative or judicial review. The abandoned property, together with penalties and interest, if any, shall be remitted to the administrator within 90 days from the date notice is received by the holder unless the holder requests (i) an administrative review in accordance with regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection D or (ii) a judicial review in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/55.1-2534/'>55.1-2534</a>.</p><p>D. The administrator shall promulgate regulations pursuant to which any person (i) asserting ownership of property remitted to the Commonwealth under this chapter, (ii) required to pay or deliver abandoned property pursuant to this chapter, or (iii) otherwise aggrieved by a decision of the administrator may file an application for administrative appeal and correction of the administrator's determination.</p><p>E. On receipt of the application as provided in regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection D, or if regulations promulgated thereunder are not in effect, on receipt of an application requesting an administrative review by the State Treasurer, the administrator shall suspend collection activity until a final determination is issued by the State Treasurer, unless the administrator determines that collection would be jeopardized by delay. Interest shall continue to accrue in accordance with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-2540/'>55.1-2540</a>, but no further penalty shall be imposed while collection activity is suspended.</p><p>F. If the State Treasurer is satisfied, by evidence submitted or otherwise, that there has been an erroneous or improper demand for the remittance of property, the State Treasurer shall order that the applicant be exonerated from the remittance of such portion as is erroneously or improperly demanded, if not already collected, and that it be returned or refunded to the applicant, if already collected. The State Treasurer shall refrain from collecting a contested charge until he has made a final determination under this section unless he determines that collection may be jeopardized by delay.</p><p>G. Except as otherwise provided in regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection D, the State Treasurer shall issue a written determination to the applicant within 90 days of receipt of an application for correction, unless the applicant is notified that a longer period will be required. All determinations of the State Treasurer shall include a written finding of fact and supporting law, and all such determinations shall be publicly reported.</p><p>H. Following a determination by the State Treasurer, the applicant may apply (i) in the case of a claim for property by a purported owner, to the appropriate circuit court pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/55.1-2534/'>55.1-2534</a> and (ii) in the case of a dispute between a holder and the State Treasurer, to the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond, within the time period established in § <a href='/vacode/55.1-2534/'>55.1-2534</a>.</p><p>1960, c. 330, § 55-210.27; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0733'>733</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0745'>745</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>