# ยง 54.1-3931 Granting certificates without examination; law professors.

<p>A. The Supreme Court shall have discretion to grant a certificate without examination to any attorney who has been admitted to practice law before the court of last resort of any state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia for at least five years. The certificate shall entitle the holder, after paying his license tax, to practice in the courts of this Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Supreme Court shall also have discretion to grant a certificate without examination to any person connected with any foreign embassy or legation to appear in the courts of this Commonwealth in all matters connected with his official duties, provided that the person has been admitted to practice in the court of last resort of the jurisdiction of the embassy or legation to which he is attached or he has received a degree from a law school approved by the American Bar Association.</p><p>C. The Supreme Court shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations allowing professors in law schools located in the Commonwealth, which are accredited by the American Bar Association, to become associate members of the Virginia State Bar. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude the granting of a certificate without examination to a professor who is otherwise eligible for such a certificate under any other provision of this section.</p><p>D. The Supreme Court may authorize the Board or any committee thereof to administer the provisions of this section.</p><p>E. All other persons shall take the examinations and comply with the applicable provisions of this chapter.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 54-67; 1988, c. 765; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0796'>796</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0396'>396</a>.</p>