# ยง 15.2-402 Board of county supervisors; election; terms; chairman; vacancies.

<p>A. The powers and duties of the county as a body politic and corporate shall be vested in a board of county supervisors ("the board").</p><p>B. The board shall consist of one member elected from the county at large by the qualified voters of the county and one member from each magisterial or election district in the county elected by the qualified voters of such magisterial or election district. The board members shall be elected at the same time and for the same term as provided by general law for the election of boards of supervisors of counties. The board shall elect its chairman from its membership.</p><p>C. Members of the board in office immediately prior to the day upon which the county board form becomes effective in the county shall be and, unless sooner removed, continue as members until the expiration of their respective terms and until their successors have qualified.</p><p>D. If the change in the form of county organization and government becomes effective on January 1 next succeeding the regular election of board members in the county, such members-elect shall qualify and, as soon as possible after the county board form becomes effective in the county, succeed the then incumbents as board members and as such continue until the expiration of their respective terms and until their successors have qualified.</p><p>E. At the regular November election next succeeding the approval of the county board form, one board member shall be elected from the county at large by the qualified voters of the county; his term of office shall begin on January 1 next succeeding such election and shall run for a term coincident with that of the other board members. Pending his election and taking office, the office of member from the county at large shall remain vacant.</p><p>F. Except as otherwise provided in subsection E of this section, any vacancy in the membership of the board shall be filled pursuant to Article 6 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-225/'>24.2-225</a> et seq.) of Chapter 2 of Title 24.2.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-365; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-700; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 158; 1993, c. 731; 1997, c. 587.</p>