# ยง 33.2-2107 Payments for certain changes in zoning classifications or use.

<p>A. For any real property within the district for which a county or participating town changes its zoning classification from one that is subject to the special improvements tax authorized by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-2106/'>33.2-2106</a> to a classification that is not subject to that tax, the county or participating town shall require the simultaneous payment from the property owner of a sum representing the present value of the future special improvements taxes estimated by the county to be lost as a result of such change in classification. On a case-by-case basis, however, the governing body or town council of a participating town may, in its sole discretion, defer, for no more than 60 days, the effective date of such change in zoning classification. Upon deferral, the lump sum provided for in this subsection shall be paid to the county in immediately available funds acceptable to the county before the deferred effective date. If the landowner fails to make this lump sum payment as and when required, the change in zoning classification shall not become effective and the ordinance shall be void. Special improvements taxes previously paid in the year of the zoning change may be credited toward the payment on a prorated basis. The portion of the payment that may be credited shall be that portion of the year following the change in zoning classification. If at the time there is outstanding a contract by which the district has agreed to pay all or a portion of the special improvements tax to the Commonwealth Transportation Board, then the district and the Commonwealth Transportation Board shall agree to a method of calculating the present value of the loss of future special improvements taxes resulting from such a change in zoning classification and the procedure for payment of such funds to the Commonwealth Transportation Board. Whenever any county or participating town acts in accordance with such an agreement between the district and the Commonwealth Transportation Board, the change in zoning classification shall not be considered to have resulted in a shortfall in the total annual revenues from the imposition of the special improvements tax and the payments required to be made to the Commonwealth Transportation Board.</p><p>B. Any owner of any real property that is subject to the special improvements tax authorized by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-2106/'>33.2-2106</a> because it is zoned to permit multiunit residential use but is not yet used for that purpose or because it consists of multiunit residential real property that is primarily leased or rented to residential tenants or other occupants by an owner who is engaged in such a business who wishes to change the use of the real property to one that is not subject to that tax shall be required, prior to any such change in use, to pay to the county a sum representing the present value of the future special improvements taxes estimated by the county to be lost as a result of such change in use.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0611'>611</a>, ยง 33.1-437; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>