# § 58.1-604.01 (For contingent expiration dates, see Acts 2013, c. 766, and Acts 2020, c. 1235) Additional state use tax in certain counties and cities.

<p>A. In addition to the use tax imposed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-604/'>58.1-604</a>, there is hereby levied and imposed in each county and city located in a Planning District established pursuant to Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-4200/'>15.2-4200</a> et seq.) of Title 15.2 that (i) as of January 1, 2013, has a population of 1.5 million or more, as shown by the most recent United States Census, has not less than 1.2 million motor vehicles registered therein, and has a total transit ridership of not less than 15 million riders per year across all transit systems within the Planning District or (ii) as shown by the most recent United States Census meets the population criteria set forth in clause (i) and also meets the vehicle registration and ridership criteria set forth in clause (i), a retail use tax at the rate of 0.70 percent. In any case in which the tax is imposed pursuant to clause (ii) such tax shall be effective beginning on the July 1 immediately following the calendar year in which all of the criteria have been met.</p><p>B. In addition to the sales tax imposed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-603/'>58.1-603</a>, there is hereby levied and imposed in each county and city located in Planning District 15 established pursuant to Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-4200/'>15.2-4200</a> et seq.) of Title 15.2 a retail use tax at the rate of 0.70 percent. In no case shall an additional use tax be imposed pursuant to both clause (ii) of subsection A and this subsection.</p><p>C. The tax imposed pursuant to subsections A and B shall not be levied upon food purchased for human consumption and essential personal hygiene products, as such terms are defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-611.1/'>58.1-611.1</a>. Such tax shall be added to the rate of the state use tax imposed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-604/'>58.1-604</a> in such county and city and shall be subject to all the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations published with respect thereto. No discount under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-622/'>58.1-622</a> shall be allowed for the tax described under this section. Such tax shall be administered and collected by the Tax Commissioner in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as provided for the state use tax under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-604/'>58.1-604</a>.</p><p>D. The revenue generated and collected pursuant to the tax authorized under this section, less the applicable portion of any refunds to taxpayers, shall be deposited by the Comptroller into special funds established by law. In the case of Planning District 8, the revenue generated and collected therein shall be deposited into the fund established in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-2509/'>33.2-2509</a>. In the case of Planning District 23, the revenue generated and collected therein shall be deposited into the fund established in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-2600/'>33.2-2600</a>. In the case of Planning District 15, the revenue generated and collected therein shall be deposited into the fund established in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-3701/'>33.2-3701</a>. For any additional planning districts that may become subject to this section, funds shall be established by appropriate legislation.</p><p>2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0766'>766</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0305'>305</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0549'>549</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1235'>1235</a>.</p>