# § 23.1-100 Definitions.

<p>As used in this title, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Associate-degree-granting" means that an associate degree is the most advanced degree that is granted.</p><p>"Associate-degree-granting public institution of higher education" includes Richard Bland College and each comprehensive community college.</p><p>"Baccalaureate" means that bachelor's degrees or more advanced degrees, or both, are granted.</p><p>"Baccalaureate public institution of higher education" includes Christopher Newport University, George Mason University, James Madison University, Longwood University, the University of Mary Washington, Norfolk State University, Old Dominion University, Radford University, the University of Virginia, the University of Virginia's College at Wise as a division of the University of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Virginia Military Institute, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Virginia State University, and The College of William and Mary in Virginia.</p><p>"Chief executive officer" includes the Chancellor of the Virginia Community College System, the Chancellor of the University of Virginia's College at Wise, the Superintendent of Virginia Military Institute, and the president of each other public institution of higher education.</p><p>"Comprehensive community college" means an associate-degree-granting public institution of higher education governed by the State Board that offers instruction in one or more of the following fields:</p><p>1. Freshman and sophomore courses in arts and sciences acceptable for transfer to baccalaureate degree programs;</p><p>2. Diversified technical curricula, including programs leading to an associate degree;</p><p>3. Career and technical education leading directly to employment;</p><p>4. Courses in general and continuing education for adults in the fields set out in subdivisions 1, 2, and 3; or</p><p>5. Noncredit training and retraining courses and programs of varying lengths to meet the needs of business and industry in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Council" means the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia.</p><p>"Governing board" includes the State Board and the board of visitors of each baccalaureate public institution of higher education. "Governing board" does not include local community college boards.</p><p>"Local community college board" means the board established to act in an advisory capacity to the State Board and perform such duties with respect to the operation of a single comprehensive community college as may be delegated to it by the State Board.</p><p>"Nonprofit private institution of higher education" means any postsecondary school, as that term is defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-213/'>23.1-213</a>, in the Commonwealth that is exempt from paying federal income taxes under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and is certified by the Council to offer degrees or exempt from such certification pursuant to Article 3 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-213/'>23.1-213</a> et seq.) of Chapter 2.</p><p>"Non-Virginia student" means any student who has not established domicile in the Commonwealth pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-502/'>23.1-502</a>.</p><p>"Private institution of higher education" includes each nonprofit private institution of higher education and proprietary private institution of higher education in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Proprietary private institution of higher education" means any postsecondary school, as that term is defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-213/'>23.1-213</a>, in the Commonwealth that is privately owned, privately managed, and obligated to pay federal income taxes in the Commonwealth and is certified by the Council to offer degrees or exempt from such certification pursuant to Article 3 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-213/'>23.1-213</a> et seq.) of Chapter 2.</p><p>"Public institution of higher education" includes the System as a whole and each associate-degree-granting and baccalaureate public institution of higher education in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"State Board" means the State Board for Community Colleges.</p><p>"System" means the Virginia Community College System.</p><p>"Virginia student" means any student who has established domicile in the Commonwealth pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-502/'>23.1-502</a>.</p><p>2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>