# ยง 23.1-1223 Powers and duties of Authority.

<p>A. The Authority shall assist participating institutions in the acquisition, construction, financing, and refinancing of projects.</p><p>B. The Authority may:</p><p>1. Determine the location and character of any project to be financed under the provisions of this article;</p><p>2. Construct, reconstruct, remodel, maintain, manage, enlarge, alter, add to, repair, operate, lease, as lessee or lessor, and regulate any project to be financed under the provisions of this article;</p><p>3. Enter into contracts for any purpose set forth in subdivision 2;</p><p>4. Enter into contracts for the management and operation of any project;</p><p>5. Issue bonds, bond anticipation notes, and other obligations of the Authority for any of its corporate purposes and fund or refund such bonds, bond anticipation notes, or other obligations as provided in this article;</p><p>6. Fix, revise, charge, and collect rates, rents, fees, and charges for the use of and for the services furnished by a project or any portion of a project;</p><p>7. Contract with any person, partnership, association, corporation, or other entity to fix, revise, charge, and collect rates, rents, fees, and charges pursuant to subdivision 9;</p><p>8. Designate a participating institution as its agent to take actions pursuant to subdivisions 1 through 4, 6, and 7;</p><p>9. Establish regulations for the use of a project or any portion of a project or designate a participating institution as its agent to establish regulations for the use of a project in which such institution is participating;</p><p>10. Employ consulting engineers, architects, attorneys, accountants, construction and financial experts, superintendents, managers, and such other employees and agents as it deems necessary and determine their compensation;</p><p>11. Receive and accept from any public agency loans or grants for or in aid of the construction of a project or any portion of a project;</p><p>12. Receive and accept from any source loans, grants, aid, or contributions of money, property, labor, or other things of value to be held, used, and applied only for the purposes for which such loans, grants, aid, and contributions are made;</p><p>13. Mortgage any project and the site of any project for the benefit of the holders of revenue bonds issued to finance such project;</p><p>14. Make loans to any participating institution for the cost of a project in accordance with an agreement between the Authority and such institution, but no such loan shall exceed the total cost of the project as determined by such institution and approved by the Authority;</p><p>15. Make loans to participating institutions to refund outstanding obligations, mortgages, or advances issued, made, or given by such participating institutions for the cost of a project;</p><p>16. Charge to and equitably apportion among participating institutions its administrative costs and expenses incurred in the exercise of the powers and duties conferred by this article; and</p><p>17. Do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of this article.</p><p>C. In carrying out the purposes of this article, the Authority may undertake a joint project for two or more participating institutions, and all other provisions of this article shall apply to and for the benefit of the Authority and the institutions of higher education participating in such joint project.</p><p>1972, c. 686, ยง 23-30.42; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0532'>532</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0658'>658</a>.</p>