# ยง 58.1-3224 Apportionment of city taxes when part of real estate becomes separately owned.

<p>The circuit court of any city in which is situated real estate upon which city taxes have been assessed may, when any part of such real estate has become, since such assessment, the separate property of any of the original owners or of any other person in interest, determine the value, as of the date of the original assessment, of any portion of such real estate so separately owned. The court may also determine what part of the whole amount of the taxes, and of the penalties, if penalties have accrued upon the taxes, and of the expenses of the sale, if the property has been sold for the nonpayment of such taxes and purchased by such city or any person, may be paid by such owner of such separate part, his heirs or assigns, in order to release or redeem such part from the lien of the taxes originally assessed. The amount so fixed shall bear the same relation to the whole amount of such taxes, penalties and expenses as the value of such part of such real estate bore to the value of the whole, as of the date of the original assessment. The city attorney of such city and the commissioner of revenue shall have at least five days' notice of such application, and the order of the court shall show that fact. Upon the payment of the amount so fixed, including all costs, the owner of any such part, his heirs or assigns, shall hold the same free from any lien for city taxes for the year or years in question. Upon such payment and the delivery to him of a copy of the order of the court, the officer whose duty it is to receive such payment of such taxes shall make an appropriate entry on the tax books showing what part of the land has been so released or redeemed. Any person, upon request and the payment of a seventy-five cent fee, shall receive a copy of the order.</p><p>The provisions of this section shall not apply to any city until the city council shall by ordinance or resolution provide for its application to such city.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-825; 1984, c. 675.</p>