# § 6.2-1065 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Acquisition of a trust office" means the acquisition of a trust office located in a host state, without acquiring the trust institution of such office.</p><p>"Bank" has the meaning assigned to it in 12 U.S.C. § 1813 (a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. § 1811 et seq.), as amended.</p><p>"Bank supervisory agency" means: (i) any agency of another state with primary responsibility for chartering and supervising a trust institution and (ii) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and any successor to these agencies.</p><p>"Home state" means (i) with respect to a federally chartered trust institution, the state where such institution maintains its principal office and (ii) with respect to any other trust institution, the state that chartered such institution.</p><p>"Home state regulator" means the bank supervisory agency with primary responsibility for chartering and supervising an out-of-state trust institution.</p><p>"Host state" means a state, other than the home state of a trust institution, in which the trust institution maintains or seeks to acquire or establish an office.</p><p>"New trust office" means a trust office located in a host state that (i) is originally established by the trust institution as a trust office and (ii) does not become a trust office of the trust institution as a result of (a) the acquisition of another trust institution or trust office of another trust institution or (b) a merger, consolidation, or conversion involving any such trust institution or trust office.</p><p>"Office" with respect to a trust institution means the principal office or a trust office, but not a branch.</p><p>"Out-of-state bank" means a bank chartered to act as a fiduciary whose home state is a state other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Out-of-state trust company" means a trust company or trust subsidiary whose home state is a state other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Out-of-state trust institution" means a trust institution whose home state is a state other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Principal office" with respect to (i) a state trust company, means a location designated by such trust company as its main office pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1028/'>6.2-1028</a> or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1047/'>6.2-1047</a> or (ii) a trust institution other than a state trust company, means its principal place of business in the United States.</p><p>"State bank" or "Virginia state bank" means a bank chartered under the laws of the Commonwealth and permitted to engage in the trust business pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-819/'>6.2-819</a>.</p><p>"State trust company" means a corporation organized or reorganized as a trust company under Article 2 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1013/'>6.2-1013</a> et seq.) or Article 3 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1047/'>6.2-1047</a> et seq.) of this chapter.</p><p>"State trust institution" means a trust institution having its principal office in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Trust company" means a state trust company or any other entity chartered to act as a fiduciary that is not a bank.</p><p>"Trust institution" means a bank or trust company chartered by a state bank supervisory agency or by the Office of the Comptroller of Currency.</p><p>"Trust office" means an office at which a trust institution engages in a trust business and not in the banking business.</p><p>1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>, § 6.1-32.32; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>