# ยง 15.2-6701 Board of the Authority; qualifications; terms; quorum; records.

<p>All powers, rights, and duties conferred by this chapter, or other provisions of law, upon the Authority shall be exercised by the Board of the Buchanan County Tourist Train Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as "the board." Initial appointments to the board shall begin July 1, 2003. The board shall consist of 22 members appointed by the governing body of Buchanan County as follows: two representatives from the governing body of Buchanan County, 19 citizen members, at least three of whom shall be residents of Buchanan County, and one member of the General Assembly representing Buchanan County, who shall serve as an ex officio, voting member. All board members shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed for additional terms. The term of any member of the board shall immediately terminate if the member no longer meets the eligibility criteria of the initial appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term.</p><p>The board shall elect from its membership a chairman, a vice-chairman, and from its membership or not, as they desire, a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, who shall continue to hold such office until their respective successors are elected. The members of the board shall receive no salary, unless specifically authorized by the governing body of Buchanan County. Four members of the board shall constitute a quorum of the board for the purposes of conducting its business and exercising its powers and for all other purposes. No vacancy in the membership of the board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the board. The board shall keep detailed minutes of its proceedings, which shall be open to public inspection at all times. It shall keep suitable records of its financial transactions and, unless exempted by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-140/'>30-140</a>, it shall arrange to have the records audited annually. Copies of each such audit shall be furnished to the governing bodies of Buchanan County and all adjacent counties and the Auditor of Public Accounts and shall be open to public inspection.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0577'>577</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0035'>35</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0158'>158</a>.</p>