# ยง 10.1-1437 Notice of intent to file application for certification of site approval.

<p>A. Any person may submit to the Board a notice of intent to file an application for a certification of site approval. The notice shall be in such form as the Board may prescribe by regulation. Knowingly falsifying information, or knowingly withholding any material information, shall void the notice and shall constitute a felony punishable by confinement in the penitentiary for one year or, in the discretion of the jury or the court trying the case without a jury, confinement in jail for not more than twelve months, a fine of not more than $10,000, or both.</p><p>Any state agency filing a notice of intent shall include therein a statement explaining why the Commonwealth desires to build a hazardous waste facility and how the public interest would be served thereby.</p><p>B. Within forty-five days of receipt of such a notice, the Board shall determine whether it is complete. The Board shall reject any incomplete notice, advise the applicant of the information required to complete it, and allow reasonable time to correct any deficiencies.</p><p>C. Upon receipt of the notice, the Board, at the applicant's expense, shall:</p><p>1. Deliver or cause to be delivered a copy of the notice of intent together with a copy of this article to the governing body of each host community and to each person owning property immediately adjoining the site of the proposed facility; and</p><p>2. Have an informative description of the notice published in a newspaper of general circulation in each host community once each week for four successive weeks. The description shall include the name and address of the applicant, a description of the proposed facility and its location, the places and times where the notice of intent may be examined, the address and telephone number of the Board or other state agency from which information may be obtained, and the date, time and location of the initial public briefing meeting on the notice.</p><p>1986, c. 492, ยง 10-293; 1988, c. 891.</p>