# ยง 55.1-1971 General powers and duties of the Common Interest Community Board.

<p>A. The Common Interest Community Board shall prescribe reasonable regulations, which shall be adopted, amended, or repealed in compliance with law applicable to the administrative procedure of agencies of government. The regulations shall include provisions for advertising standards to assure full and fair disclosure, provisions for operating procedures, and other regulations as are necessary and proper to accomplish the purpose of this chapter.</p><p>B. The Common Interest Community Board by regulation or by an order, after reasonable notice and hearing, may require the filing of advertising material relating to condominiums prior to its distribution.</p><p>C. If it appears that a person has engaged or is about to engage in an act or practice constituting a violation of a provision of this chapter or Common Interest Community Board regulation or order, the Common Interest Community Board, with or without prior administrative proceedings, may bring an action in the circuit court of the county or city in which any portion of the condominium is located to enjoin the acts or practices and to enforce compliance with this chapter or any Common Interest Community Board regulation or order. Upon proper showing, injunctive relief or temporary restraining orders shall be granted. The Common Interest Community Board is not required to post a bond in any court proceedings or prove that no other adequate remedy at law exists.</p><p>D. With respect to any lawful process served upon the Common Interest Community Board pursuant to the appointment made in accordance with subdivision A 1 of ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1975/'>55.1-1975</a>, the Common Interest Community Board shall forthwith cause the same to be sent by registered or certified mail to any of the principals, officers, directors, partners, or trustees of the declarant listed in the application for registration at the last address listed in such application or the most recent annual report.</p><p>E. The Common Interest Community Board may intervene in any action involving the declarant. In any action by or against a declarant involving a condominium, the declarant shall promptly furnish the Common Interest Community Board notice of the action and copies of all pleadings.</p><p>F. The Common Interest Community Board may:</p><p>1. Accept registrations filed in other states or with the federal government;</p><p>2. Contract with similar agencies in the Commonwealth or other jurisdictions to perform investigative functions; and</p><p>3. Accept grants in aid from any governmental source.</p><p>G. The Common Interest Community Board shall cooperate with similar agencies in other jurisdictions to establish uniform filing procedures and forms, uniform public offering statements, advertising standards, regulations, and common administrative practices.</p><p>1974, c. 416, ยง 55-79.98; 1981, c. 480; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0605'>605</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>