# ยง 58.1-202.2 Public-private partnerships; Public Private Partnership Oversight Committee.

<p>A. The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized through the Department of General Services in accordance with the Virginia Public Procurement Act to enter into public-private partnership contracts to finance agency technology needs. The Tax Commissioner may issue a request for information to seek out potential private partners interested in providing programs pursuant to an agreement under this section. The compensation for such services shall be computed with reference to and paid from the increased revenue attributable to the successful implementation of the technology program for the period specified in the contract.</p><p>B. The Public Private Partnership Oversight Committee, hereinafter referred to as the "Committee" is established as an advisory committee in the executive branch of state government to review and approve the terms of contracts under this section relating to the measurement of the revenue attributable to the technology program. The Committee shall consist of five members as follows: one legislative employee appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules after the consideration of the recommendation of the President pro tempore of the Senate, if any; one legislative employee appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; and the State Comptroller, the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget, and the State Inspector General, as ex officio voting members. All members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>Ex officio members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Legislative employee members shall be appointed for a term of two years and may be reappointed for successive terms. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>The Tax Commissioner shall preside over the meetings of the Committee. The Committee may select an alternative to preside in the absence of the Tax Commissioner. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Committee shall be held at the call of the Tax Commissioner or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>The Tax Commissioner shall submit an annual executive summary and report no later than November 30 to the Governor and General Assembly on all agreements under this section, describing each technology program, its progress, revenue impact, and such other information as may be relevant. The executive summary and report shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.</p><p>C. The Tax Commissioner shall determine annually the total amount of increased revenue attributable to the successful implementation of a technology program under this section and such amount shall be deposited in a special fund known as the Technology Partnership Fund (the Fund). The Tax Commissioner is authorized to use moneys deposited in the Fund to pay private partners pursuant to the terms of contracts under this section. All moneys in excess of that required to be paid to private partners, as determined by the Department, shall be reported to the Comptroller and transferred to the appropriate general or nongeneral fund.</p><p>1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0643'>643</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0653'>653</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0798'>798</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>.</p>