# ยง 30-359 Intercollegiate Athletics Review Commission; purpose; membership; terms; compensation and expenses.

<p>A. As used in this chapter, "Commission" means the Intercollegiate Athletics Review Commission.</p><p>B. The Commission is established as an advisory commission in the legislative branch of state government. The purpose of the Commission is to review the plan and financing recommendations of the board of visitors of any public institution of higher education in the Commonwealth relating to the institution adding a major intercollegiate athletics program such as football or basketball or changing the division level of any of its existing intercollegiate athletics programs as set forth in subsection I of ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-1309/'>23.1-1309</a>.</p><p>C. The Commission shall consist of eleven members as follows: the chair of the House Committee on Appropriations, or his designee, and three members of the House Committee on Appropriations appointed by the chair and the chair of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations, or his designee, and two members of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations appointed by the chair. In addition, the Auditor of Public Accounts, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Finance, and the Director of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia shall serve as ex officio, nonvoting members of the Commission.</p><p>D. Members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>E. The members of the Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman annually. A majority of the voting members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>F. Members of the Commission shall receive such compensation and reimbursement of expenses as provided in the general appropriation act.</p><p>2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0704'>704</a>.</p>