# ยง 38.2-3443 Choice of a health care professional.

<p>A. Notwithstanding any provision of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3407.11/'>38.2-3407.11</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4312.3/'>38.2-4312.3</a>, or any other section of this title to the contrary, if a health carrier providing individual or group health insurance coverage requires or provides for the designation by a covered person of a participating primary care health care professional, the health carrier shall permit each covered person to designate any participating primary care health care professional who is available to accept the covered person. For a child, a participating health care professional who specializes in pediatrics and is available to accept the child may be designated as the child's primary care health care professional.</p><p>B. If a health carrier provides for obstetrical or gynecological care and requires the designation by a covered person of a participating primary care health care professional, the health carrier shall not require any person's prior authorization or referral in the case of a female covered person who seeks coverage for obstetrical or gynecological care provided by a participating health care professional who specializes in obstetrics or gynecology. The provision of obstetrical and gynecological care, and the ordering of related items and services, shall be treated the same as an authorization from a primary care health care professional.</p><p>C. A health carrier shall provide notice to a covered person of the terms and conditions of the plan related to the designation of a participating health care professional.</p><p>1. Such notice shall be included whenever the health carrier provides a covered person with a summary plan description, policy, certificate, or contract of health insurance.</p><p>2. The health carrier may use the model language found in 45 C.F.R. ยง 147.138(a)(4)(iii) for such notice.</p><p>D. This section shall apply to any health carrier providing individual or group health insurance coverage, except for any grandfathered plan.</p><p>2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0882'>882</a>.</p>