# ยง 22.1-212.24 Approval of multidivision online providers; contracts with local school boards.

<p>A. The Superintendent shall develop, and the Board shall approve, (i) the criteria and application process for approving multidivision online providers; (ii) a process for monitoring approved multidivision online providers; (iii) a process for revocation of the approval of a previously approved multidivision online provider; and (iv) an appeals process for a multidivision online provider whose approval was revoked or whose application was denied. The process developed under this subsection shall require approvals and revocations to be determined by the Superintendent, and either the denial of an application or revocation of approval may be appealed to the Board for review. The approval of a multidivision online provider under this section shall be effective until the approval is revoked, for cause, pursuant to the terms of this section. Any notice of revocation of approval of a multidivision online provider or rejection of an application by a multidivision online provider shall state the grounds for such action with reasonable specificity and give reasonable notice to the multidivision online provider to appeal.</p><p>B. In developing the criteria for approval pursuant to subsection A, the Superintendent shall (i) require multidivision online providers to be accredited by a national, regional, or state accreditation program approved by the Board; (ii) require such courses or programs, pupil performance standards, and curriculum to meet or exceed any applicable Standards of Learning and Standards of Accreditation; (iii) require any educational objectives and assessments used to measure pupil progress toward achievement of the school's pupil performance standards to be in accordance with the Board's Standards of Accreditation and all applicable state and federal laws; (iv) require such courses or programs to maintain minimum staffing requirements appropriate for virtual school programs; and (v) publish the criteria for approval of multidivision online providers on its website, including any applicable deadlines, fees, and guidelines.</p><p>C. The Department may charge a multidivision online provider applicant or a local school board requesting to offer a course through Virtual Virginia a fee not to exceed the costs required to ensure proper evaluation and approval of such requests. The Department shall establish and publish a fee schedule for purposes of this subsection.</p><p>D. Local school boards may enter into contracts, consistent with the criteria approved by the Board pursuant to this section, with approved private or nonprofit organizations to provide multidivision online courses and virtual school programs. Such contracts shall be exempt from the Virginia Public Procurement Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4300/'>2.2-4300</a> et seq.).</p><p>2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0537'>537</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0817'>817</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0436'>436</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>.</p>