# ยง 30-202 (Expires July 1, 2024) Membership; terms.

<p>The Commission shall consist of 10 legislative members. Members shall be appointed as follows: four members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules and six members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates.</p><p>Members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. All members may be reappointed. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be made for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. The chairman of the Commission shall be authorized to designate one or more members of the Commission to observe and participate in the discussions of any work group convened by the State Corporation Commission in furtherance of its duties under the Virginia Electric Utility Regulation Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/56-576/'>56-576</a> et seq.) and this chapter. Members participating in such discussions shall be entitled to compensation and reimbursement provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/30-204/'>30-204</a>, if approved by the Joint Rules Committee or its Budget Oversight Subcommittee.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0885'>885</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000'>1000</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0883'>883</a>.</p>