# § 62.1-44.15:29.1 (For contingent effective date, see Acts 2016, cc. 68 and 758, as amended by Acts 2017, c. 345) Stormwater Local Assistance Fund.

<p>A. The State Comptroller shall continue in the state treasury the Stormwater Local Assistance Fund (the Fund) established by Chapter 806 of the Acts of Assembly of 2013, which shall be administered by the Department. All civil penalties and civil charges collected by the Board pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.15:25/'>62.1-44.15:25</a>, <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.15:48/'>62.1-44.15:48</a>, <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.15:63/'>62.1-44.15:63</a>, and <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.15:74/'>62.1-44.15:74</a>, subdivision (19) of § <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.15/'>62.1-44.15</a>, and § <a href='/vacode/62.1-44.19:22/'>62.1-44.19:22</a> shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund, together with such other funds as may be made available to the Fund, which shall also receive bond proceeds from bonds authorized by the General Assembly, sums appropriated to it by the General Assembly, and other grants, gifts, and moneys as may be made available to it from any other source, public or private. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund.</p><p>B. The purpose of the Fund is to provide matching grants to local governments for the planning, design, and implementation of stormwater best management practices that address cost efficiency and commitments related to reducing water quality pollutant loads. Moneys in the Fund shall be used to meet (i) obligations related to the Chesapeake Bay total maximum daily load (TMDL) requirements, (ii) requirements for local impaired stream TMDLs, (iii) water quality measures of the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Implementation Plan, and (iv) water quality requirements related to the permitting of small municipal separate storm sewer systems. The grants shall be used solely for stormwater capital projects, including (a) new stormwater best management practices, (b) stormwater best management practice retrofitting or maintenance, (c) stream restoration, (d) low-impact development projects, (e) buffer restoration, (f) pond retrofitting, and (g) wetlands restoration. Such grants shall be made in accordance with eligibility determinations made by the Department pursuant to criteria established by the Board. Grants awarded for projects related to Chesapeake Bay TMDL requirements may take into account total phosphorus reductions or total nitrogen reductions. Grants awarded for eligible projects in localities with high or above average fiscal stress as reported by the Commission on Local Government may account for more than 50 percent of the costs of a project.</p><p>C. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purpose set forth herein and disbursements from it shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director.</p><p>2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0068'>68</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0385'>385</a>.</p>