# ยง 33.2-1803.1:1 Public sector analysis and competition.

<p>A. For any transportation facility under consideration for development and/or operation under this chapter by the Department of Transportation, the Virginia Passenger Rail Authority, or the Department of Rail and Public Transportation, the responsible public entity shall ensure competition throughout the procurement process by developing a public sector option based on the analysis conducted in subsection B. The public sector option shall identify a maximum public contribution.</p><p>B. The responsible public entity shall undertake, in cooperation with the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Finance, a public sector analysis of the cost for the responsible entity to develop and/or operate the transportation facility or facilities being considered for development and/or operation pursuant to this chapter. At a minimum, such analysis shall contain the following information:</p><p>1. Any mitigation of risk of user-fee financing through assumptions related to competing facilities, compensation for high usage of the facility by high-occupancy vehicles, or other considerations that may mitigate the risk of user-fee financing.</p><p>2. Whether the Department of Transportation, the Virginia Passenger Rail Authority, or the Department of Rail and Public Transportation intends to maintain and operate the facility, or if the public sector option is based on the transfer of such responsibilities to the private sector.</p><p>3. Public contribution, if any, that would still be required to cover all costs necessary for the development and/or operation of the transportation facility in excess of financing available should the General Assembly authorize the use of debt secured by a pledge of net revenues derived from rates, fees, or other charges and the full faith and credit of the Commonwealth pursuant to Article X, Section 9 (c) of the Constitution of Virginia.</p><p>4. Funds provided to support nonuser fee generating components of the project that contribute to the benefits expected to be realized from the transportation facility pursuant to subdivision B 1 of ยง <a href='/vacode/33.2-1803.1/'>33.2-1803.1</a>.</p><p>2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>