# § 18.2-403.3 Offenses involving animals — Class 4 misdemeanors.

<p>The following unlawful acts and offenses against animals shall constitute and be punished as a Class 4 misdemeanor:</p><p>1. Violation of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6566/'>3.2-6566</a> pertaining to interference of agents charged with preventing cruelty to animals.</p><p>2. Violation of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6573/'>3.2-6573</a> pertaining to shooting pigeons.</p><p>3. Violation of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6554/'>3.2-6554</a> pertaining to disposing of the body of a dead companion animal.</p><p>4. Unless otherwise punishable under subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6587/'>3.2-6587</a>, violation of ordinances passed pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/3.2-6522/'>3.2-6522</a> and <a href='/vacode/3.2-6525/'>3.2-6525</a> pertaining to rabid dogs and preventing the spread of rabies and the running at large of vicious dogs.</p><p>5. Violation of an ordinance passed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6539/'>3.2-6539</a> requiring dogs to be on a leash.</p><p>6. Failure by any person to secure and exhibit the permits required by § <a href='/vacode/29.1-422/'>29.1-422</a> pertaining to field trails, night trails and foxhounds.</p><p>7. Diseased dogs. — For the owner of any dog with a contagious or infectious disease, other than rabies, to permit such dog to stray from his premises if such disease is known to the owner.</p><p>8. License application. — For any person to make a false statement in order to secure a dog or cat license to which he is not entitled.</p><p>9. License tax. — For any dog or cat owner to fail to pay any license tax required by subsection A or C of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6530/'>3.2-6530</a> within one month after the date when it is due. In addition, the court may order confiscation and the proper disposition of the dog or cat.</p><p>10. Concealing a dog or cat. — For any person to conceal or harbor any dog or cat on which any required license tax has not been paid.</p><p>11. Removing collar and tag. — For any person, except the owner or custodian, to remove a legally acquired license tag from a dog or cat without the permission of the owner or custodian.</p><p>12. Violation of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6503/'>3.2-6503</a> pertaining to care of animals by owner.</p><p>1984, c. 492; 1993, cc. 174, 817; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0559'>559</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0567'>567</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1183'>1183</a>.</p>