# § 23.1-3121 Board of trustees.

<p>A. The Center shall be governed by a board of trustees (the board) consisting of 15 members as follows: two members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; one member of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; the Director of the Council or his designee; the Chancellor of the Virginia Community College System or his designee; the presidents of Longwood University, Danville Community College, and Southside Virginia Community College or their designees; and seven nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor, including two members of the Southern Virginia Higher Education Foundation, one superintendent of a local school division located in the Southside region, and four representatives of business and industry. The Speaker of the House of Delegates may appoint an alternate for one delegate appointed to the board. The alternate shall serve a term coincident with the term of the delegate and has the power to act in his absence. The Senate Committee on Rules may appoint an alternate for the senator appointed to the board. The alternate shall serve a term coincident with the term of the senator and may act in his absence.</p><p>Nonlegislative citizen members of the board shall be chosen from among residents of the Southside region of the Commonwealth and shall be citizens of the Commonwealth. However, an individual who does not reside in the Southside region may serve as a representative of business and industry if he either (i) owns a business headquartered or otherwise operating in the Southside region or (ii) serves as a member of the board of directors or senior management of a business headquartered or otherwise operating in the Southside region.</p><p>B. Legislative members and the representatives of the Council, the System, and the named institutions of higher education shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for terms of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>No nonlegislative citizen member is eligible to serve more than two consecutive four-year terms; however, a member appointed to serve an unexpired term is eligible to serve two consecutive four-year terms immediately succeeding such unexpired term.</p><p>C. Nonlegislative citizen members are not entitled to compensation for their services. Legislative members of the board shall be compensated as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a>. All members of the board shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties in the work of the Center as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. The funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Center.</p><p>D. The board shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its membership.</p><p>2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0799'>799</a>, § 23-231.25; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0160'>160</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0236'>236</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0305'>305</a>.</p>