# § 58.1-390.3 Elective income tax on pass-through entities.

<p>A. 1. For taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2021, but before January 1, 2022, a qualifying pass-through entity may make an election, in a format and according to such requirements and procedures to be established by the Department, to pay the tax levied by this section at the entity level for the taxable year. Such election shall be made on or before a date to be determined by the Department, which shall be set no earlier than one year after the extended due date for filing the applicable return. Notwithstanding §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-1812/'>58.1-1812</a> and <a href='/vacode/58.1-1833/'>58.1-1833</a>, no interest shall accrue on underpayments or overpayments solely attributable to such election.</p><p>2. For taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2022, but before January 1, 2026, a qualifying pass-through entity may make an annual election, on its timely filed return pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-392/'>58.1-392</a>, to pay the tax levied by this section at the entity level for the taxable period covered by such return. Such election shall be made on or before the due date for filing the applicable return, including any extensions that have been granted.</p><p>B. A tax at the rate of 5.75 percent is hereby annually imposed on the Virginia taxable income, as calculated pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-391/'>58.1-391</a>, for each taxable year of every qualifying pass-through entity that makes the election provided under subsection A.</p><p>C. A qualifying pass-through entity that elects to pay the tax levied by subsection B shall be eligible for all credits, deductions, or other adjustments to taxable income under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-391/'>58.1-391</a>, provided that a qualifying pass-through entity's taxable income shall be adjusted to eliminate any federal deduction for state and local income taxes.</p><p>D. Any person that is subject to the tax imposed under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-320/'>58.1-320</a> or <a href='/vacode/58.1-360/'>58.1-360</a> and is an owner of a qualifying pass-through entity making the election pursuant to this section shall be entitled to a credit against the tax imposed, provided that taxable income has been adjusted to add back any deduction for state and local income taxes paid by the qualifying pass-through entity. Such credit shall be in an amount equal to such person's pro rata share of the tax paid under this section by any qualifying pass-through entity of which such person is an owner. If the amount of the credit allowed pursuant to this subsection exceeds such person's tax liability for the tax imposed under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-320/'>58.1-320</a> or <a href='/vacode/58.1-360/'>58.1-360</a>, as applicable, such excess shall be treated as an overpayment and refundable pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-499/'>58.1-499</a>.</p><p>E. If any qualifying pass-through entity makes an election pursuant to this section, the Department shall assess and collect tax, interest, and penalties as if such tax is a corporate income tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of Article 10 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-400/'>58.1-400</a> et seq.).</p><p>F. The Department shall develop and make publicly available guidelines implementing the provisions of this section and the credit authorized by subdivision C 2 of § <a href='/vacode/58.1-332/'>58.1-332</a>.</p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0689'>689</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0690'>690</a>.</p>