# § 46.2-725.2 Special license plates for certain business entities with fleets of vehicles registered in the Commonwealth.

<p>A. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-725/'>46.2-725</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-726/'>46.2-726</a>, upon application by certain business entities with vehicle fleets registered in the Commonwealth, the Commissioner may develop and issue special license plates bearing the logos of such businesses in accordance with policies and procedures established by the Commissioner for the issuance of license plates and in accordance with the following provisions:</p><p>1. Any business wishing to obtain these special license plates must (i) have a fleet of at least 100 vehicles registered in the Commonwealth, (ii) utilize one of the Department's online electronic fleet titling and registration systems to obtain title and registration documents for its vehicles, and (iii) enter into an agreement with the Department for the use of the business's logo.</p><p>2. Any business that enters into an agreement with the Department for the issuance of license plates under this section thereby waives any royalty fees to which it might otherwise be entitled for use of its logo.</p><p>3. Any initial request for license plates under this section shall be accompanied by an administrative fee as follows: (i) for 100-199 vehicles in a fleet, a fee of $4,500; (ii) for 200-349 vehicles in a fleet, a fee of $4,200; or (iii) for more than 349 vehicles in a fleet, a fee of $4,000.</p><p>4. For each set of license plates issued under this section without reserved numbers or letters, the Commissioner shall charge, in addition to the prescribed fee for state license plates, a one-time fee of $5. The fee for a replacement set of license plates issued under this section without reserved numbers or letters shall be $5.</p><p>5. For each set of license plates issued under this section with reserved letters or numbers as provided for in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-726/'>46.2-726</a>, in lieu of the fees prescribed by that section, the Commissioner shall charge, in addition to the prescribed fee for state license plates, a one-time fee of $15. The fee for a replacement set of license plates issued under this section with reserved numbers or letters shall be $15.</p><p>B. License plates may be issued under this section to vehicles of any type registered by the Department, including those registered under the International Registration Plan.</p><p>C. 1. Subsequent to the development of license plates for a business pursuant to subsection A, a business may agree to permit the use of such plates on vehicles not in the company fleet. Written authorization from the business shall be required to obtain or retain any license plates issued pursuant to this subsection. The business may withdraw any such authorization at any time.</p><p>2. Upon receipt of written authorization and an application, the Commissioner shall issue to the applicant license plates bearing the logo of the business. The annual fee for each set of license plates issued under this subsection shall be $10 plus the prescribed fee for state license plates. For each set of license plates issued under this subsection bearing reserved numbers or letters, the annual fee shall be the same as for those issued under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-726/'>46.2-726</a>.</p><p>3. The fee for a replacement set of license plates issued under this subsection shall be as required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-692/'>46.2-692</a>.</p><p>4. License plates issued under this subsection shall not be issued through one of the Department's online electronic fleet titling and registration systems.</p><p>5. The provisions of subdivisions B 1 and 2 of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-725/'>46.2-725</a> shall not apply to license plates issued under this subsection.</p><p>2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0056'>56</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0022'>22</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0111'>111</a>.</p>