# § 37.2-718 Order to compel payment of expenses.

<p>A. When any individual receiving services or his guardian, conservator, trustee, or other person liable for his expenses fails to pay those expenses and it appears from investigation that the individual, his guardian, conservator, trustee, or other person liable for his support is able or has sufficient estate to pay the expenses, the Department shall petition the appropriate court having jurisdiction over the estate of the individual or the court for the county or city in which the individual resides or from which he was admitted to a state facility for an order to compel payment of the expenses by the person liable therefor. In any case in which a person liable for the support of the individual is being proceeded against, the petition shall be directed to the appropriate court of the county or city in which the person liable for the support of the individual resides.</p><p>B. The individual receiving services and his estate shall first be liable for the payment of his expenses and thereafter, the person liable for the support of the individual. Such person shall be the father, mother, husband, wife, or child of the individual who has attained the age of majority. Multiple persons shall be jointly and severally liable. The Department shall collect part or all of the expenses from the several sources as appears proper under the circumstances and may proceed against all sources, except that the principal or income or both from a trust created for the benefit of the individual shall be liable for payment only as provided in Article 5 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-742/'>64.2-742</a> et seq.) of the Uniform Trust Code. In evaluating the circumstances, the Department may consider any events related to the admission of the individual for treatment or training that have affected the person liable, such as the infliction of serious injury by the individual on the person who is liable. The proceedings for the collection of expenses shall conform to the procedure for collection of debts due the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. Notice of any hearing on the petition of the Department for an order to compel payment of expenses shall be served at least 15 days prior to the hearing and in the manner provided for the service of civil process on the individual receiving services and, if there is one, on his guardian, conservator, or trustee, on the other person legally responsible for the individual's support, or on the person against whom the proceedings are instituted.</p><p>D. At the hearing, the court shall hear the allegations and proofs of the parties and shall by order require full or partial payment of maintenance by the liable parties, if they have sufficient ability, having due regard for the financial condition and estate of the individual receiving services or any other person liable for his expenses, his present and future needs, and the present and future needs of his lawful dependents, if the proceeding is to charge the individual or any other person liable with such expenses.</p><p>E. Upon application of any interested party and upon like notice and procedure, the court may at any time modify an order to compel payment of expenses. If the application is made by any party other than the Department, the notice shall be served on the Commissioner.</p><p>F. Any party aggrieved by an order or by the judgment of the court may appeal therefrom in the manner provided by law.</p><p>G. Any order or judgment rendered by the court hereunder shall have the same force and effect and shall be enforceable in the same manner and form as any judgment recovered in favor of the Commonwealth.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 37-125.6, 37-125.8 to 37-125.12; 1950, p. 918; 1962, c. 80; 1968, c. 477, §§ 37.1-110 to 37.1-115; 1972, cc. 382, 590; 1976, c. 671; 1978, c. 482; 1979, c. 669; 1982, c. 50; 1987, c. 137; 1990, c. 927; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0801'>801</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0935'>935</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507'>507</a>.</p>