# ยง 32.1-346 Director to establish standards; reimbursement of services.

<p>A. The Director shall prescribe regulations setting forth the amount, duration and scope of medical services covered by the Program which shall be uniform in all localities. Such services shall consist only of inpatient and outpatient hospital services, services rendered in free-standing ambulatory surgical centers and local public health clinics by providers who have signed agreements to participate in the State/Local Hospitalization Program and are enrolled providers in the Medical Assistance Program. Services covered under the Program shall not exceed in amount, duration or scope those available to recipients of Medical Assistance Services as provided in the State Plan for Medical Assistance pursuant to Chapter 10 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-323/'>32.1-323</a> et seq.) of this title. Subject to the above, the Board may modify such coverage so long as uniformity of coverage is maintained throughout the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Reimbursement for services under this Program shall be equal to that of the Medical Assistance Program pursuant to Chapter 10 of this title as follows:</p><p>1. The reimbursement rate per visit for outpatient hospital services shall be the same as that established by the Department of Medical Assistance Services for an intermediate office visit for an established patient;</p><p>2. The inpatient hospital reimbursement rate shall be consistent with the Medicaid inpatient rate methodology. However, no disproportionate share or medical education adjustment for SLH inpatient hospital reimbursement shall be provided;</p><p>3. Inpatient hospital stays for adults shall be limited to twenty-one days of covered hospitalization within sixty days for the same or similar diagnosis. The sixty day period shall begin with the initial hospital admission. Only twenty-one total medically necessary days shall be covered whether incurred for one or more hospital stays, in the same or multiple hospitals, during the sixty day period. Inpatient hospital admissions on Friday and Saturday shall not be covered except in cases of medical emergencies. Reimbursement of inpatient hospital days on behalf of individuals up to the age of twenty-one shall be for medically necessary stays in excess of twenty-one days as provided in the State Plan for Medical Assistance Services;</p><p>4. The hospital emergency room reimbursement rate per visit shall be the same as that rate established by the Department of Medical Assistance Services for an intermediate level, established patient emergency department visit; and</p><p>5. The outpatient surgical rate for hospitals and ambulatory surgical centers shall be the same as the rates established by the Department of Medical Assistance Services for the facility component for ambulatory surgical centers.</p><p>C. Procedures identified by the Department of Medical Assistance Services as outpatient surgical procedures shall be performed in an outpatient setting unless the inpatient care was medically necessary and outpatient surgery could not be safely performed, the surgical procedure was performed with other surgical procedures requiring inpatient admission or adequate outpatient facilities were not available.</p><p>D. Acceptance of payment for services by a provider under this Program shall constitute payment in full.</p><p>1989, cc. 657, 746; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0782'>782</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0792'>792</a>.</p>