# ยง 30-282 Joint Commission on Transportation Accountability established; composition; terms; compensation and expenses; quorum; voting on recommendations.

<p>There is hereby established in the legislative branch of state government the Joint Commission on Transportation Accountability. The Commission shall consist of six members of the House of Delegates appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates, of whom at least three shall be members of the House Committee on Transportation; four members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules of whom at least two shall be members of the Senate Committee on Transportation; and the Auditor of Public Accounts, who shall serve as a nonvoting ex officio member. Members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office as members of the House of Delegates and the Senate. Members may be reappointed for successive terms.</p><p>Members of the Commission shall receive such compensation as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a> and shall be reimbursed for all their reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the Commission. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided from existing appropriations to the Commission.</p><p>The Commission shall annually elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its membership. Meetings of the Commission shall be held upon the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request. A majority of the members appointed to the Commission shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0896'>896</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0332'>332</a>.</p>