# ยง 38.2-3451 Essential health benefits.

<p>A. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, any person offering or providing a health benefit plan providing individual or small group health insurance coverage, including (i) catastrophic health insurance policies, and policies that pay on a cost-incurred basis; (ii) association health plans; and (iii) plans provided by a multiple-employer welfare arrangement, shall provide that such coverage includes essential health benefits. Nothing in this section shall require a health benefit plan providing large group health insurance coverage to provide coverage for essential health benefits in a manner that exceeds the requirements of the PPACA as of January 1, 2019. The essential health benefits package may also include associated cost-sharing requirements or limitations.</p><p>B. The provisions of subsection A requiring minimum essential pediatric oral health benefits shall be deemed to be satisfied for health benefit plans made available in the small group market or individual market in the Commonwealth outside an exchange, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/38.2-3455/'>38.2-3455</a>, issued for policy or plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2015, that do not include the minimum essential pediatric oral health benefits if the health carrier has obtained reasonable assurance that such pediatric oral health benefits are provided to the purchaser of the health benefit plan. The health carrier shall be deemed to have obtained reasonable assurance that such pediatric oral health benefits are provided to the purchaser of the health benefit plan if:</p><p>1. At least one qualified dental plan, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/38.2-3455/'>38.2-3455</a>, (i) offers the minimum essential pediatric oral health benefits and (ii) is available for purchase by the small group or individual purchaser; and</p><p>2. The health carrier prominently discloses, in a form approved by the Commission, at the time that it offers the health benefit plan that the plan does not provide the minimum essential pediatric oral health benefits.</p><p>2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0751'>751</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0307'>307</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0369'>369</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1160'>1160</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0101'>101</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0102'>102</a>.</p>