# ยง 4.1-1100 Possession, etc., of marijuana and marijuana products by persons 21 years of age or older lawful; penalties.

<p>A. Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle and notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person 21 years of age or older may lawfully possess on his person or in any public place not more than one ounce of marijuana or an equivalent amount of marijuana product as determined by regulation promulgated by the Board.</p><p>B. Any person who possesses on his person or in any public place marijuana or marijuana products in excess of the amounts set forth in subsection A is subject to a civil penalty of no more than $25. The penalty for any violations of this section by an adult shall be prepayable according to the procedures in ยง <a href='/vacode/16.1-69.40:2/'>16.1-69.40:2</a>.</p><p>C. With the exception of a licensee in the course of his duties related to such licensee's marijuana establishment, any person who possesses on his person or in any public place more than one pound of marijuana or an equivalent amount of marijuana product as determined by regulation promulgated by the Board is guilty of a felony punishable by a term of imprisonment of not less than one year nor more than 10 years and a fine of not more than $250,000, or both.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section shall not apply to members of federal, state, county, city, or town law-enforcement agencies, jail officers, or correctional officers, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/53.1-1/'>53.1-1</a>, certified as handlers of dogs trained in the detection of controlled substances when possession of marijuana is necessary for the performance of their duties.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>.</p>