# § 15.2-102 Definitions.

<p>As used in this title unless such construction would be inconsistent with the context or manifest intent of the statute:</p><p>"Board of supervisors" means the governing body of a county.</p><p>"City" means any independent incorporated community which became a city as provided by law before noon on the first day of July, nineteen hundred seventy-one, or which has within defined boundaries a population of 5,000 or more and which has become a city as provided by law.</p><p>"Constitutional officer" means an officer provided for pursuant to Article VII, § 4 of the Constitution.</p><p>"Council" means the governing body of a city or town.</p><p>"Councilman" or "member of the council" means a member of the governing body of a city or town.</p><p>"County" means any existing county or such unit hereafter created.</p><p>"Governing body" means the board of supervisors of a county, council of a city, or council of a town, as the context may require.</p><p>"Locality" or "local government" shall be construed to mean a county, city, or town as the context may require.</p><p>"Municipality," "incorporated communities," "municipal corporation," and words or terms of similar import shall be construed to relate only to cities and towns.</p><p>"Supervisor" means a member of the board of supervisors of a county.</p><p>"Town" means any existing town or an incorporated community within one or more counties which became a town before noon, July one, nineteen hundred seventy-one, as provided by law or which has within defined boundaries a population of 1,000 or more and which has become a town as provided by law.</p><p>"Voter" means a qualified voter as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-101/'>24.2-101</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-1; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-6; 1997, c. 587.</p>