# ยง 32.1-252 State Registrar; duties; delegations.

<p>A. The State Registrar, under the supervision of the Commissioner, shall:</p><p>1. Administer the provisions of this chapter and the regulations of the Board in a manner that will ensure the uniform and efficient administration of the system of vital records.</p><p>2. Direct and supervise the system of vital records and be custodian of its records.</p><p>3. Direct, supervise and control the activities of all persons when pertaining to the operation of the system of vital records.</p><p>4., 5. [Repealed.]</p><p>6. Conduct training programs to promote uniformity of policy and procedures throughout the Commonwealth in matters pertaining to the system of vital records.</p><p>7. Inspect vital records which have been sealed as provided by law whenever such inspection will facilitate the administration of this chapter without violating the confidentiality of such records.</p><p>8. Perform such other duties as may be required by law.</p><p>9. Develop, furnish and distribute, in accordance with the regulations of the Board, forms as required by this chapter and such other means for transmission of data as may be necessary for the purpose of complete and accurate reporting and registration.</p><p>10. Develop and provide a means for obtaining a social security number in conjunction with the issuance of a birth certificate.</p><p>11. Develop, furnish and distribute a surrogate consent and report form as described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-162/'>20-162</a>.</p><p>B. The State Registrar may delegate functions and duties vested in him to designated assistants and to county, city and special registrars as he deems necessary or expedient.</p><p>C. The Department of Motor Vehicles, when issuing a certified copy of a vital record, shall be subject to the State Registrar's rules, regulations, and audit requirements, including the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 32-353.8; 1960, c. 451; 1979, c. 711; 1983, c. 240; 1990, c. 576; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0890'>890</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0534'>534</a>.</p>