# § 13.1-768 Automatic revocation of certificate of authority.

<p>A. If any foreign corporation fails to file its annual report or pay its annual registration fee in a timely manner as required by this chapter, the Commission shall mail to each such corporation a notice of the impending revocation of its certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth. Whether or not such notice is mailed, if any foreign corporation fails to file its annual report or pay its annual registration fee on or before the last day of the fourth month immediately following its annual report or annual registration fee due date each year, such foreign corporation shall automatically cease to be authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and its certificate of authority shall be automatically revoked as of that day.</p><p>B. Every foreign corporation authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth shall pay the annual registration fee required by law on or before the foreign corporation's annual registration fee due date determined in accordance with subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-775.1/'>13.1-775.1</a> of each year.</p><p>C. If any foreign corporation whose registered agent has filed with the Commission a statement of resignation pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-765/'>13.1-765</a> fails to file a statement of change pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-764/'>13.1-764</a> within 31 days after the date on which the statement of resignation was filed, the Commission shall mail notice to the foreign corporation of the impending revocation of its certificate of authority. If the foreign corporation fails to file the statement of change before the last day of the second month immediately following the month in which the impending revocation notice was mailed, the corporation shall automatically cease to be authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth and its certificate of authority shall be automatically revoked as of that day.</p><p>D. The automatic revocation of a foreign corporation's certificate of authority pursuant to this section constitutes the appointment of the clerk of the Commission as an agent for service of process upon the foreign corporation in any proceeding based on a cause of action arising during the time the foreign corporation was authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth. Service of process on the clerk of the Commission under this subsection is service on the foreign corporation and shall be made on the clerk in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/12.1-19.1/'>12.1-19.1</a>.</p><p>E. Revocation of a foreign corporation's certificate of authority pursuant to this section does not terminate the authority of the registered agent of the corporation.</p><p>Code 1950, § 13.1-117; 1956, c. 428; 1970, c. 4; 1980, c. 192; 1985, cc. 522, 528; 1987, c. 2; 1988, c. 405; 1991, c. 125; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0052'>52</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0753'>753</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>.</p>