# ยง 2.2-2698 Modeling and Simulation Advisory Council; purpose; membership; chairman.

<p>A. The Modeling and Simulation Advisory Council (the Council) is established as an advisory council, within the meaning of ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2100/'>2.2-2100</a>, in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Council shall be to advise the Governor on policy and funding priorities to promote the modeling and simulation industry in the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Council shall consist of 15 members as follows: three legislative members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; one legislative member of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and six citizen representatives of the modeling and simulation industry and two citizen members representing Virginia public institutions of higher education with modeling and simulation capabilities to be appointed by the Governor. Two Secretaries as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-200/'>2.2-200</a> to be appointed by the Governor and the Executive Director of the Virginia Modeling, Analysis and Simulation Center shall serve ex officio.</p><p>Appointments by the Governor shall be for terms of four years, except an appointment to fill a vacancy, which shall be for the unexpired term. Ex officio members and legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. All members shall be eligible for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the manner of the original appointments.</p><p>C. The Council shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman annually from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The Council shall meet biannually and at such other times as may be called by the chairman or a majority of the Council. Staff to the Council shall be provided by the office of the Secretary of Administration.</p><p>2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0857'>857</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0440'>440</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>.</p>