# ยง 6.2-1036 Commission's remedial powers.

<p>A. If the Commission finds that a trust company (i) has failed to fully observe the laws of the Commonwealth, (ii) is being operated in an unsafe or unsound manner, (iii) has failed to comply with any Commission order or regulation, (iv) is engaging in any irregular practices, or (v) is, or is about to become, insolvent or its capital has been, or is in danger of being, impaired, the Commission shall give notice thereof to the officers and directors of the company. If necessary to conserve the assets of the company or protect the public interest, the Commission may:</p><p>1. Close the company for a period not exceeding 60 days, which period may be further extended for a like period or periods as the Commission deems necessary;</p><p>2. Require that all orders and regulations of the Commission be complied with;</p><p>3. Require that the company make reports daily or at such other times as may be required as to the results achieved in carrying out the Commission's orders;</p><p>4. Require that any irregularities be promptly corrected;</p><p>5. Require that any impairment of capital be made good; or</p><p>6. Temporarily suspend the right of the company to receive any further property in a fiduciary capacity.</p><p>B. If the Commission determines that a receiver should be appointed for a trust company, the Commission may close the company; take charge of the books, assets and affairs of the company; and apply to any circuit court in the Commonwealth for the appointment of a receiver to take charge of the company's business, assets and affairs. Proceedings for appointment of a receiver for a trust company shall not be entertained by any court except on application of the Commission.</p><p>C. The Commissioner may issue and serve upon a trust company a cease and desist order if, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the company is engaging, has engaged, or, there is reasonable cause to believe, is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, irregularity, or any violation of law, rule, or regulation applicable to the conduct of its business, or any Commission order. The cease and desist order shall contain a statement of the facts upon which it is based and may require, in terms that may be mandatory or otherwise, the company and its directors, officers, employees, and agents to cease and desist from the practice or violation. The order shall specify its effective date and shall notify the company of its right to request a hearing in accordance with the Commission's Rules.</p><p>D. When the practice or violation specified in an order issued pursuant to subsection C, or any continuation thereof, is likely to prejudice the company's stockholders, or persons having an interest in property held by the company in a fiduciary capacity, the Commissioner may make the order effective immediately. An order shall remain in effect until withdrawn by the Commissioner or terminated by the Commission after a hearing. A request for a hearing shall be given expeditious treatment on the Commission's docket, and the Commission need not allow 10 days' notice to the company.</p><p>1993, c. 432, ยง 6.1-32.28; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0524'>524</a>; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0140'>140</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>