# ยง 22.1-212.8 Charter application.

<p>A. Any person, group, or organization, including any institution of higher education, may submit an application for the formation of a public charter school.</p><p>B. The public charter school application shall be a proposed agreement and shall include:</p><p>1. An executive summary.</p><p>2. A mission statement of the public charter school that is consistent with the principles of the Standards of Quality, including identification of the targeted academic program of study.</p><p>3. A plan for the displacement of pupils, teachers, and other employees who will not attend or be employed in the public charter school, in instances of the conversion of an existing public school to a public charter school, and for the placement of public charter school pupils, teachers, and employees upon termination or revocation of the charter.</p><p>4. The location or geographic area proposed for the public charter school.</p><p>5. The grades to be served each year for the full term of the charter contract.</p><p>6. Minimum, planned, and maximum enrollment per grade level per year for the term of the charter contract.</p><p>7. Evidence of need and community support for the proposed public charter school.</p><p>8. Background information on the proposed founding management committee members and, if identified, the proposed public charter school leadership and management team.</p><p>9. The public charter school's proposed calendar and a sample daily schedule.</p><p>10. A description of the academic program that is aligned with the Standards of Learning.</p><p>11. A description of the public charter school's instructional design, including the type of learning environment, such as classroom-based or independent study; class size and structure; curriculum overview; and teaching methods.</p><p>12. The public charter school's plans for identifying and successfully serving students with disabilities, students who are English language learners, students who lag behind academically, and gifted students, including compliance with applicable laws and regulations.</p><p>13. A description of cocurricular or extracurricular programs and how such programs will be funded and delivered.</p><p>14. Plans and timelines for student recruitment and enrollment, including lottery procedures.</p><p>15. The public charter school's student discipline policies, including discipline policies for special education students.</p><p>16. An organization chart that clearly presents the public charter school's organizational structure, including lines of authority and reporting between the management committee; staff; any related bodies, such as advisory bodies or parent and teacher councils; and any external organizations that will play a role in managing the public charter school.</p><p>17. A clear description of the roles and responsibilities for the management committee, the public charter school's leadership and management team, and any other entities shown in the organization chart.</p><p>18. A staffing chart for the public charter school's first year and a staffing plan for the term of the charter contract.</p><p>19. Plans for recruiting and developing the public charter school's leadership and staff.</p><p>20. The public charter school's leadership and teacher employment policies.</p><p>21. Proposed governing bylaws.</p><p>22. Explanations of any partnerships or contractual relationships central to the public charter school's operations or mission.</p><p>23. The public charter school's plans for providing transportation, food service, and all other significant operational and ancillary services.</p><p>24. A statement of opportunities and expectations for parent involvement.</p><p>25. A detailed public charter school start-up plan that identifies tasks, timelines, and responsible individuals.</p><p>26. A description of the public charter school's financial plan and policies, including financial controls and audit requirements.</p><p>27. A description of the insurance coverage that the public charter school will obtain.</p><p>28. Start-up and five-year budgets with clearly stated assumptions.</p><p>29. Start-up and first-year cash-flow projections with clearly stated assumptions.</p><p>30. Evidence of anticipated fundraising contributions, if claimed in the application.</p><p>31. A sound facilities plan, including backup or contingency plans, if appropriate.</p><p>32. Assurances that the public charter school (i) is nonreligious in its programs, admission policies, employment practices, and all other operations and (ii) does not charge tuition.</p><p>33. Disclosure of any ownership or financial interest in the public charter school, by the charter applicant and the governing body, administrators, and other personnel of the proposed public charter school, and a requirement that the successful applicant and the governing body, administrators, and other personnel of the public charter school shall have a continuing duty to disclose such interests during the term of any charter.</p><p>C. The charter applicant shall include in the proposed agreement the results of any Board review of the public charter school application that may have been conducted as provided in subsection C of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-212.9/'>22.1-212.9</a>.</p><p>1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0748'>748</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0890'>890</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0631'>631</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1028'>1028</a>; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0874'>874</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0530'>530</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0928'>928</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0441'>441</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0645'>645</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0693'>693</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0770'>770</a>.</p>