# § 22.1-289.052 Asbestos inspection required for child day centers.

<p>The Superintendent shall not issue a license to any child day center that is located in a building built prior to 1978 until he receives a written statement that the building has been inspected for asbestos, as defined by § <a href='/vacode/2.2-1162/'>2.2-1162</a>, and in accordance with the regulations for initial asbestos inspections pursuant to the federal Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act, 40 C.F.R. Part 763 — Asbestos Containing Materials in Schools. The inspection shall be conducted by personnel competent to identify the presence of asbestos and licensed in Virginia as an asbestos inspector and as an asbestos management planner pursuant to Chapter 5 (§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-500/'>54.1-500</a> et seq.) of Title 54.1. The written statement shall state whether (i) no asbestos was detected, (ii) asbestos was detected and response actions to abate any risk to human health have been completed, or (iii) asbestos was detected and response actions to abate any risk to human health have been recommended in accordance with a specified schedule and plan pursuant to applicable state and federal statutes and regulations. The statement shall include identification of any significant hazard areas, the date of the inspection and be signed by the person who inspected for the asbestos. If asbestos was detected, an operations and maintenance plan shall be developed in accordance with the regulations of the federal Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act and the statement shall be signed by the person who prepared the operations and maintenance plan. Any inspection, preparation of an operations and maintenance plan or response action shall be performed by competent personnel who have been licensed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of Title 54.1.</p><p>When asbestos has been detected, the applicant for licensure shall also submit to the Superintendent a written statement that response actions to abate any risk to human health have been or will be initiated in accordance with a specified schedule and plan as recommended by an asbestos management planner licensed in Virginia. This statement shall be signed by the applicant for licensure.</p><p>The written statements required by this section shall be submitted for approval to the Superintendent's representative prior to issuance of a license. The provisions of this section shall not apply to child day centers located in buildings required to be inspected pursuant to Article 5 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-1162/'>2.2-1162</a> et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 2.2.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861'>861</a>.</p>