# ยง 46.2-334.001 Court to suspend driver's license issued to certain minors.

<p>A. Upon receipt by the juvenile and domestic relations district court within whose jurisdiction the minor resides of a petition from the principal, or his designee, of any public school in the Commonwealth that any person who is less than 18 years old and attending that public school has had 10 or more unexcused absences from school on consecutive school days, the court shall give notice and opportunity for the minor to show cause why his driver's license should not be suspended. Upon failure to show cause for the license not to be suspended, the court may suspend the minor's driver's license for any period of time, until the minor is 18 years old.</p><p>B. The foregoing provisions of this section shall not apply in cases where the student has withdrawn from school for a reason or reasons beyond the control of the student, for the purpose of transferring to another school as confirmed in writing by the student's parent or guardian, or when the student's parent or guardian expresses in open court his desire to allow the student to retain his license. The juvenile and domestic relations district court judge shall be the sole authority as to whether the licensee's withdrawal from school is due to circumstances beyond the control of the student.</p><p>C. Any person whose driver's license is suspended as provided in this section may apply to a juvenile and domestic relations district court for issuance of a restricted driver's license for any of the purposes set forth in subsection E of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-271.1/'>18.2-271.1</a>. No restricted license shall be issued pursuant to this section unless the licensee (i) is employed at least four hours per day and at least 20 hours per week, (ii) has a medical condition that requires him to be able to drive a motor vehicle, or (iii) is the only licensee in his household. The court shall order the surrender of such person's license and shall forward to the Commissioner a copy of its order entered pursuant to this subsection. This order shall specifically enumerate the restrictions imposed and contain such information regarding the person to whom such a restricted license is issued as is reasonably necessary to identify such person. The court shall also provide a copy of its order to such person, who may operate a motor vehicle on the order until receipt from the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles of a restricted driver's license, but only if the order provides for a restricted driver's license for that period. Any person who operates a motor vehicle in violation of any restriction imposed pursuant to this section shall be guilty of a violation of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-301/'>46.2-301</a>.</p><p>2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0439'>439</a>.</p>