# ยง 46.2-205.2 Agreements with other agencies or contractors for other agencies; collection of fees.

<p>The Commissioner may enter into an agreement with an agency of the Commonwealth, any other state, or the federal government, or where the underlying contract permits, a contractor for such state or federal agency, to conduct customer service transactions on behalf of that agency for the benefit of Virginia residents. For each such transaction conducted, the Department shall collect from the customer any transaction fee required by the responsible agency or contractor and remit the same to that agency or contractor in accordance with the terms of the agreement. However, the Department may receive a portion of the transaction fee required by the responsible agency or contractor in accordance with the terms of the agreement in order to defray the costs of the transaction to the Department. The Department may also impose and collect a processing fee to be used to defray the costs of the transaction to the Department. The amount of the processing fee, if imposed, shall be $2, unless otherwise specified by law. Any transaction fees received from the responsible agency or contractor or processing fees imposed and collected by the Department from the agency, contractor, or customer under this section shall be paid into the state treasury and set aside as a special fund to be used to meet the expenses of the Department.</p><p>For purposes of this section, "state," when applied to a part of the United States, means any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the United States Virgin Islands.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0215'>215</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0222'>222</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0368'>368</a>.</p>