# ยง 15.2-3510 General effect of consolidation.

<p>Upon the first day of office following the first election of county, city or town officers for the consolidated localities, the several localities shall be thereafter for all purposes treated and considered as one county, city or town, as the case may be, under the name and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the consolidation agreement and in accordance with the provisions of this article. All the rights, privileges and franchises of each of the several localities and all property, real and personal, and all debts due on whatever account, as well as other things in action, belonging to each of such localities shall be deemed as transferred to and vested in the consolidated locality without further act or deed. All property, all rights-of-way and all other interests shall be as effectually the property of the consolidated locality as they were of the several localities prior to their consolidation. The title to real estate, either by deed or otherwise, under the laws of this Commonwealth vested in any of the localities shall not be deemed to revert or be in any way impaired by reason of the consolidation. The rights of creditors and all liens upon the property of any of the localities shall be preserved unimpaired; the respective localities shall be deemed to continue in existence to preserve such rights and liens, and all debts, liabilities and duties of any of the localities shall thenceforth attach to the consolidated locality and be enforced against it to the same extent as if such debts, liabilities and duties had been incurred or contracted by it.</p><p>Such consolidated locality shall in all respects, except as otherwise provided herein, be subject to all the obligations and liabilities imposed and shall possess all the rights, powers, and privileges vested by law in other localities.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 15-170; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-1079; 1997, c. 587.</p>