# ยง 3.2-4908 Withholding noncomplying remedies from sale; tagging, condemnation, destruction, and correction of adulterated or misbranded remedies.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall require those animal remedies that are found or believed not to comply with the provisions of this chapter to be withheld from sale until he determines that the remedies are in compliance with such provisions.</p><p>B. Whenever the Commissioner finds or has reasonable cause to believe an animal remedy is adulterated or misbranded he shall affix to such article a tag or other appropriate marking, giving notice that such article is, or is suspected of being, adulterated or misbranded and has been detained and warning all persons not to dispose of such article in any manner until permission is given by the Commissioner or an appropriate court. Any such article may be removed from display by the manufacturer or vendor, but shall remain on the premises.</p><p>C. If such a detained article is found, after examination and analysis, to be adulterated or misbranded, the Commissioner may petition the judge of any appropriate court in whose jurisdiction the article is detained for condemnation. If the Commissioner finds that such detained article is not adulterated or misbranded, he shall remove the tag or other marking.</p><p>D. If the court finds that a detained animal remedy is adulterated or misbranded, such article shall, after entry of the decree, be destroyed, under the supervision of the Commissioner, at the expense of the defendant. All court costs and fees, and storage and other proper expenses, shall be paid by the defendant or his agent.</p><p>E. If the adulteration or misbranding can be corrected by proper processing or labeling of the article, an appropriate court, after entry of the decree and after such costs, fees, and expenses have been paid and a sufficient bond, conditioned that such article shall be so processed or labeled, has been executed, may order such article to be delivered to the defendant for such processing or labeling under the supervision of the Commissioner. The expense of such supervision shall be paid by the defendant. The bond shall be returned to the defendant on the representation to the court by the Commissioner that the article no longer violates any of the provisions of this chapter and that expenses incident to such proceeding were paid.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 3-646.4; 1956, c. 517; 1966, c. 702, ยง 3.1-833; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>