# ยง 15.2-4303 Power of localities to enact ordinances; application form and fees; maps; sample form.

<p>A. Each locality shall have the authority to promulgate forms and to enact ordinances to effectuate this chapter. The locality may charge a reasonable fee for each application submitted pursuant to this chapter; such fee shall not exceed $500 or the costs of processing and reviewing an application, whichever is less.</p><p>B. The locality shall prescribe application forms for districts that include but need not be limited to the following information:</p><p>1. The general location of the district;</p><p>2. The total acreage in the district or acreage to be added to an existing district;</p><p>3. The name, address, and signature of each landowner applying for creation of a district or an addition to an existing district and the acreage each owner owns within the district or addition;</p><p>4. The conditions proposed by the applicant pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-4309/'>15.2-4309</a>;</p><p>5. The period before first review proposed by the applicant pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-4309/'>15.2-4309</a>; and</p><p>6. The date of application, date of final action by the local governing body and whether approved, modified or rejected.</p><p>C. The application form shall be accompanied by maps or aerial photographs, or both, prescribed by the locality that clearly show the boundaries of the proposed district and each addition and boundaries of properties owned by each applicant, and any other features as prescribed by the locality.</p><p>D. For each notice required by this chapter to be sent to a landowner, notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the last known address of such owner as shown on the application hereunder or on the current real estate tax assessment books or maps. A representative of the local planning commission or local governing body shall make affidavit that such mailing has been made and file such affidavit with the papers in the case.</p><p>1977, c. 681, ยง 15.1-1509; 1978, c. 604; 1979, c. 377; 1984, c. 20; 1987, c. 552; 1997, c. 587; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0667'>667</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0344'>344</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>.</p>