# ยง 55.1-1316 Right to sell or rent manufactured home upon eviction.

<p>A. A tenant who has been evicted from a manufactured home park shall have 90 days after judgment has been entered in which to sell the manufactured home or remove the manufactured home from the manufactured home park. Such tenant shall be responsible for paying the rental amount and for regular maintenance of the manufactured home lot during the period between the date of eviction and the sale of the manufactured home or the removal of the manufactured home from the manufactured home park. Such right to keep the manufactured home in the manufactured home park shall be conditioned upon the payment of all rent accrued prior to the date of judgment and prospective monthly rent as it becomes due. During such term, a secured party shall be liable for such charges as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1305/'>55.1-1305</a>. The manufactured home park owner shall have a lien on the manufactured home to the extent that such rental payments are not made. Any sale of the manufactured home shall be subject to the rights of any secured party having a security interest in the home, and the lien granted to the manufactured home park owner under this section shall be subject to any such security interest.</p><p>B. A tenant who has been evicted from a manufactured home park shall have 90 days from after the judgment has been entered by a court of competent jurisdiction in which to rent the manufactured home to a subtenant, contingent on the subtenant making a rental application to the manufactured home park owner within such 90-day period and approval by the manufactured home park owner of such rental application from the subtenant. The tenant of the lot shall be responsible for paying the lot rent amount to the park owner and for regular maintenance of the manufactured home lot during the period between the date of eviction and any rental of the manufactured home to a subtenant. Such right to keep the manufactured home on the lot in the manufactured home park shall be conditioned upon the payment of all rent accrued prior to the date of judgment and prospective monthly rent as it becomes due. During such term, a secured party shall be liable for such charges as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1305/'>55.1-1305</a>.</p><p>1992, c. 709, ยง 55-248.50:2; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0751'>751</a>.</p>