# ยง 9.1-116.3 Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Program Professional Standards Committee.

<p>A. The Virginia Sexual and Domestic Violence Program Professional Standards Committee (the Committee) shall establish voluntary accreditation standards and measures by which local sexual and domestic violence programs can be systematically evaluated with a peer-reviewed process. The Committee may adopt bylaws for its operation, fees, and other items as necessary. Fees for accreditation shall be used to support any administrative costs of the Department. Upon request of the Committee, the Department and the Virginia sexual and domestic violence coalition may provide accreditation assistance and training and resource material that will assist the local programs in obtaining or retaining accreditation. The Department shall provide staff support to the Committee.</p><p>The Committee shall consist of the following: one nonvoting member representing the Department of Criminal Justice Services; one nonvoting member appointed by and representative of the Department of Social Services; one nonvoting member appointed by and representative of the Virginia sexual and domestic violence coalition; and 12 nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor, who shall be leadership staff of local sexual and domestic violence programs. The nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor shall serve for terms of four years, provided that no voting member shall serve beyond the time when he holds the office or employment by reason of which he was initially eligible for appointment. Members appointed by the Governor shall not be eligible to serve for more than two consecutive terms. The appointment of members shall take into consideration racial and ethnic diversity and shall be representative of regional and geographic locations of the Commonwealth.</p><p>The Committee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its members.</p><p>B. A majority of the voting members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>C. Members of the Committee shall not receive compensation but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>.</p><p>D. The Committee shall have the following duties and responsibilities:</p><p>1. Establish voluntary accreditation standards and measures by which local and domestic violence programs can be systematically evaluated with a peer-reviewed process;</p><p>2. Review and vote on accreditation status recommendations for applicant programs;</p><p>3. Establish a subcommittee as needed to address appeals from applicant programs; and</p><p>4. Periodically evaluate and revise accreditation standards and measures.</p><p>E. The Department shall have the following duties and responsibilities:</p><p>1. Establish accreditation procedures by which local sexual and domestic violence programs can be systematically evaluated with a peer-reviewed process;</p><p>2. Assist local programs in obtaining or retaining accreditation;</p><p>3. Review and evaluate applications for accreditation; and</p><p>4. Determine accreditation status recommendations for applicant programs and present such recommendations to the Committee.</p><p>2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0222'>222</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0402'>402</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0193'>193</a>.</p>