# ยง 36-160 Housing revitalization zone designation.

<p>A. The governing body of any county, city or town may make written application to the Department to have an area or areas declared to be a housing revitalization zone. Such application shall include a description of the location of the area or areas in question, and a general statement identifying proposed local incentives to complement the state incentives. Two or more adjacent jurisdictions may file a joint application for a housing revitalization zone lying in the jurisdictions submitting the application.</p><p>B. The Governor may approve, upon the recommendation of the Director of the Department, the designation of up to twenty areas as housing revitalization zones for a period of fifteen years. Any county, city, or town shall be eligible to apply for more than one housing revitalization zone designation; however, each county, city, and town shall be limited to a total of two housing revitalization zones. Any such area shall consist of contiguous United States census tracts or any portion thereof in accordance with the most current United States Census or with the most current data from the local planning district commission. Any such area seeking designation as a housing revitalization zone shall also meet at least one of the following criteria: (i) have per capita income below eighty percent of the median per capita income for the planning district or (ii) have a residential vacancy rate that is at least 120 percent of the average vacancy rate for the planning district. No more than ten percent of a locality's land area may be in a single housing revitalization zone.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0789'>789</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0795'>795</a>.</p>