# ยง 32.1-122.03 State Health Plan.

<p>A. The Board may develop, and revise as it deems necessary, the State Health Plan with the support of the Department and the assistance of the regional health planning agencies. Following review and comment by interested parties, including appropriate state agencies, the Board may develop and approve the State Health Plan. The State Health Plan shall be developed in accordance with components and methodologies that take into account special needs or circumstances of local areas. The Plan shall reflect data and analyses provided by the regional health planning agencies and include regional differences where appropriate. The Board, in preparation of the State Health Plan and to avoid unnecessary duplication, may consider and utilize all relevant and formally adopted plans of agencies, councils, and boards of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. In order to develop and approve the State Health Plan, the Board may conduct such studies as may be necessary of critical health issues as identified by the Governor, General Assembly, Secretary or by the Board. Such studies may include, but not be limited to: (i) collection of data and statistics; (ii) analyses of information with subsequent recommendations for policy development, decision making and implementation; and (iii) analyses and evaluation of alternative health planning proposals and initiatives.</p><p>1989, cc. 617, 633; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0083'>83</a>.</p>