# ยง 56-547 Utility crossings.

<p>The applicant shall include in the application a list of public utility facilities and rights-of-way to be crossed or otherwise affected in the construction of the roadway and a plan and schedule for such crossings. The operator and each public utility whose works are to be crossed or affected shall each have the duty to cooperate fully with the other in planning and arranging of the manner of the crossing or relocation of the facilities. Any public service corporation possessing the powers of eminent domain is hereby expressly granted such powers in connection with the moving or relocation of facilities to be crossed by the roadway or which must be relocated to the extent that such moving or relocation is made necessary by construction of the roadway, which shall be construed to include construction of temporary facilities for the purpose of providing service during the period of construction. Should the applicant or operator and the public utility whose facilities are to be crossed or relocated not be able to agree upon a plan for such crossing or any necessary relocation, either party may request the Commission to inquire into the need for the crossing or relocation and to decide whether such crossing or relocation should be compelled, and if so, the manner in which such crossing or relocation is to be accomplished and any damages due either party arising out of the crossing or relocation. The Commission may in its discretion employ expert engineers who shall examine the location and plans for such crossing or relocation, hear any objections and consider modifications, and make a recommendation to the Commission. In such a case, the cost of the experts is to be borne equally by the applicant and the public utility, unless the Commission determines that it would be unjust, in which case the cost shall be borne as the Commission decides. Railroads shall be included within the scope of the term "public utility" for purposes of this section.</p><p>1988, c. 649.</p>