# ยง 33.2-611 Tolls may vary to encourage travel during off-peak hours.

<p>A. In order to provide an incentive for motorists to travel at off-peak hours, and in accordance with federal requirements, wherever a toll is imposed and collected by the Department or such other entity as may be responsible for imposing or collecting such toll, the amount of such toll may vary according to the time of day, day of the week, traffic volume, vehicle speed, vehicle type, similar variables, or combinations thereof. The amount of such toll and the time of day when such toll changes shall be as fixed and revised by the Board or such other entity as may be responsible for fixing or revising the amount of such toll, provided, however, that any such variation shall be reasonably calculated to minimize the reduction in toll revenue generated by such toll.</p><p>B. 1. Beginning July 1, 2008, every agency of the Commonwealth or any political subdivision or instrumentality thereof having control of or day-to-day responsibility for the operation of any toll facility in the Commonwealth shall take all necessary actions to ensure that every newly constructed toll facility under its control is capable of fully automated electronic operation, employing technologies and procedures that permit the collection of tolls from users of the facility, to the extent possible, without impeding the traffic flow of the facility. An entity operating a toll facility that substantially upgrades its equipment or substantially renovates its facility after July 1, 2008, shall comply with the provisions of this subsection. The provisions of this section shall also apply to any nongovernmental or quasigovernmental entity operating a toll facility under a comprehensive agreement entered into, pursuant to the Public-Private Transportation Act of 1995 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-1800/'>33.2-1800</a> et seq.), on or after January 1, 2008. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit a toll facility from retaining means of nonautomated toll collection in some lanes of the facility.</p><p>2. For toll facilities within the territory embraced by the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority, the provisions of subdivision 1 apply to all toll facilities, regardless of whether or not they are newly constructed or substantially upgraded.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1003'>1003</a>, ยง 33.1-223.2:12; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0896'>896</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>