# ยง 22.1-276.2 Removal of students from classes.

<p>A. Teachers shall have the initial authority to remove a student for disruptive behavior from a class.</p><p>B. Each school board shall establish, within the regulations governing student conduct required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-279.6/'>22.1-279.6</a>:</p><p>1. Criteria for teachers to remove disruptive students from their classes;</p><p>2. Requirements for incident reports of disruptive behavior to school administrators and any other documentation to support such removals from class;</p><p>3. Procedures for the written notification of a student and his parents of any incident report and its contents and for the opportunity to meet with the teacher and school administrators to discuss the student's behavior and the possible consequences if such behavior does not cease;</p><p>4. Guidelines for the alternative assignment and instruction of such students and for the duration of such removals; and</p><p>5. Procedures for the return of students to class, for teacher participation in any decision by the principal to return a student to the class from which he has been removed, and for the resolution of any disagreements between such principal and teacher regarding such return.</p><p>C. The principal shall, unless a student who has been removed from class is suspended or expelled from school attendance, ensure that such student continues to receive an education.</p><p>D. Any teacher whose evaluation indicates deficiencies in the management of student conduct may be required by the school board to attend professional development activities designed to improve classroom management and disciplinary skills.</p><p>E. Application of this section to students with disabilities shall be in accordance with state and federal law and regulations.</p><p>F. This section shall not be construed to limit or restrict other school board policies and regulations for maintaining order in the classroom.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0830'>830</a>; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0688'>688</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0820'>820</a>.</p>