# § 19.2-295.2:1 Postrelease incarceration of felons sentenced for certain offenses committed on or after July 1, 2006.

<p>A. For offenses committed on or after July 1, 2006:</p><p>1. At the time the court imposes a sentence upon a conviction for a first violation of subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-472.1/'>18.2-472.1</a> the court shall impose an added term of postrelease incarceration of six months.</p><p>2. For a second or subsequent violation of subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-472.1/'>18.2-472.1</a> when both violations occurred after July 1, 2006, or a first violation of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-472.1/'>18.2-472.1</a>, the court shall impose an added term of postrelease incarceration of two years.</p><p>3. For a second or subsequent violation of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-472.1/'>18.2-472.1</a> when both violations occurred after July 1, 2006, the court shall impose an added term of postrelease incarceration of five years.</p><p>Any terms of postrelease incarceration imposed pursuant to this section shall be in addition to any other punishment imposed, including any periods of active incarceration or suspended periods of incarceration, if any.</p><p>B. The court shall order that any term of postrelease incarceration imposed pursuant to this section be suspended, and the defendant be placed on active supervision under a postrelease supervision program operated by the Department of Corrections. The court shall order that the defendant be subject to electronic monitoring by means of a GPS (Global Positioning System) tracking device, or other similar device during this period of postrelease supervision. Failure to successfully abide by the terms and conditions of the postrelease supervision program shall be grounds to terminate the period of postrelease supervision and recommit the defendant to the Department of Corrections or to a local correctional facility. Procedures for any such termination shall be conducted after a hearing in the court which originally sentenced the defendant, conducted in a manner consistent with a revocation hearing under § <a href='/vacode/19.2-306/'>19.2-306</a>, mutatis mutandis.</p><p>C. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the court from exercising any authority otherwise granted by law.</p><p>2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0857'>857</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0914'>914</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1115'>1115</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1116'>1116</a>.</p>