# § 38.2-100 Definitions.

<p>As used in this title:</p><p>"Alien company" means a company incorporated or organized under the laws of any country other than the United States.</p><p>"Bureau" or "Bureau of Insurance" means the division of the Commission established to administer the insurance laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.</p><p>"Commissioner" or "Commissioner of Insurance" means the administrative or executive officer of the Bureau.</p><p>"Company" means any association, aggregate of individuals, business, corporation, individual, joint-stock company, Lloyds type of organization, organization, partnership, receiver, reciprocal or interinsurance exchange, trustee or society.</p><p>"Domestic company" means a company incorporated or organized under the laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Foreign company" means a company incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States, or of any state other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Health services plan" means any arrangement for offering or administering health services or similar or related services by a corporation licensed under Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4200/'>38.2-4200</a> et seq.).</p><p>"Insurance" means the business of transferring risk by contract wherein a person, for a consideration, undertakes (i) to indemnify another person, (ii) to pay or provide a specified or ascertainable amount of money, or (iii) to provide a benefit or service upon the occurrence of a determinable risk contingency. Without limiting the foregoing, "insurance" shall include (i) each of the classifications of insurance set forth in Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-101/'>38.2-101</a> et seq.) of this chapter and (ii) the issuance of group and individual contracts, certificates, or evidences of coverage by any health services plan as provided for in Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4200/'>38.2-4200</a> et seq.), health maintenance organization as provided for in Chapter 43 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4300/'>38.2-4300</a> et seq.), legal services organization or legal services plan as provided for in Chapter 44 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4400/'>38.2-4400</a> et seq.), dental or optometric services plan as provided for in Chapter 45 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-4500/'>38.2-4500</a> et seq.), and dental plan organization as provided for in Chapter 61 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-6100/'>38.2-6100</a> et seq.). "Insurance" shall not include any activity involving a home service contract that is subject to regulation pursuant to Chapter 33.1 (§ <a href='/vacode/59.1-434.1/'>59.1-434.1</a> et seq.) of Title 59.1; an extended service contract that is subject to regulation pursuant to Chapter 34 (§ <a href='/vacode/59.1-435/'>59.1-435</a> et seq.) of Title 59.1; a warranty made by a manufacturer, seller, lessor, or builder of a product or service; or a service agreement offered by an automobile club as defined in subsection E of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-514.1/'>38.2-514.1</a>.</p><p>"Insurance company" means any company engaged in the business of making contracts of insurance.</p><p>"Insurance transaction," "insurance business," and "business of insurance" include solicitation, negotiations preliminary to execution, execution of an insurance contract, and the transaction of matters subsequent to execution of the contract and arising out of it.</p><p>"Insurer" means an insurance company.</p><p>"Medicare" means the "Health Insurance for the Aged Act," Title XVIII of the Social Security Amendment of 1965, as amended.</p><p>"Person" means any association, aggregate of individuals, business, company, corporation, individual, joint-stock company, Lloyds type of organization, organization, partnership, receiver, reciprocal or interinsurance exchange, trustee or society.</p><p>"Rate" or "rates" means any rate of premium, policy fee, membership fee or any other charge made by an insurer for or in connection with a contract or policy of insurance. The terms "rate" or "rates" shall not include a membership fee paid to become a member of an organization or association, one of the benefits of which is the purchasing of insurance coverage.</p><p>"Rate service organization" means any organization or person, other than a joint underwriting association under § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1915/'>38.2-1915</a> or any employee of an insurer including those insurers under common control or management, who assists insurers in ratemaking or filing by:</p><p>(a) Collecting, compiling, and furnishing loss or expense statistics;</p><p>(b) Recommending, making or filing rates or supplementary rate information; or</p><p>(c) Advising about rate questions, except as an attorney giving legal advice.</p><p>"State" means any commonwealth, state, territory, district or insular possession of the United States.</p><p>"Surplus to policyholders" means the excess of total admitted assets over the liabilities of an insurer, and shall be the sum of all capital and surplus accounts, including any voluntary reserves, minus any impairment of all capital and surplus accounts.</p><p>Without otherwise limiting the meaning of or defining the following terms, "insurance contracts" or "insurance policies" shall include contracts of fidelity, indemnity, guaranty and suretyship.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 38-1, 38-194, 38-253.20, 38-253.67; 1952, c. 317, §§ 38.1-1, 38.1-219; 1973, c. 504, § 38.1-279.30; 1980, c. 204, § 38.1-362.12; 1986, c. 562; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0707'>707</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0668'>668</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0653'>653</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0727'>727</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0264'>264</a>.</p>