# § 17.1-275.14 Additional fee for Virginia State Police Electronic Summons System Fund.

<p>A. In addition to the fees provided for by §§ <a href='/vacode/16.1-69.48:1/'>16.1-69.48:1</a>, <a href='/vacode/16.1-69.48:1.01/'>16.1-69.48:1.01</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.1/'>17.1-275.1</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.2/'>17.1-275.2</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.3/'>17.1-275.3</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.4/'>17.1-275.4</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.5/'>17.1-275.5</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.7/'>17.1-275.7</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.8/'>17.1-275.8</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.9/'>17.1-275.9</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.10/'>17.1-275.10</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.11/'>17.1-275.11</a>, <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.12/'>17.1-275.12</a>, and <a href='/vacode/17.1-275.13/'>17.1-275.13</a>, a fee of $5 shall be assessed as court costs in each criminal or traffic case in which the Virginia State Police issued the summons, ticket, or citation. All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited into the state treasury and credited to the Virginia State Police Electronic Summons System Fund.</p><p>B. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia State Police Electronic Summons System Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All fees collected under this section, moneys appropriated directly to the Fund, and any other grants or gifts made to the Fund shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of funding software, hardware, and associated equipment costs for the implementation and maintenance of an electronic summons system. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Superintendent of the Virginia State Police or his designee.</p><p>2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0342'>342</a>.</p>