# ยง 13.1-845 Members' list for meeting.

<p>A. After fixing a record date for a meeting, a corporation shall prepare an alphabetical list of the names of all its members who are entitled to notice of a members' meeting. If the board of directors fixes a different record date to determine the members entitled to vote at the meeting, a corporation shall also prepare an alphabetical list of the names of all its members who are entitled to vote at the meeting. A list shall be arranged by voting group, and show the address of each member.</p><p>B. The members' list for notice shall be available for inspection by any member, beginning two business days after notice of the meeting is given for which the list was prepared and continuing through the meeting, at the corporation's principal office or at a place identified in the meeting notice in the county or city where the meeting will be held. A members' list for voting shall be similarly available for inspection promptly after the record date for voting. A member, or the member's agent or attorney, is entitled on written demand to inspect and, subject to the requirements set forth in subsection C of ยง <a href='/vacode/13.1-933/'>13.1-933</a>, to copy a list, during the regular business hours and at the member's expense, during the period it is available for inspection.</p><p>C. If the meeting is to be held at a place, the corporation shall make the list of members entitled to vote available at the meeting, and any member, or the member's agent or attorney, is entitled to inspect the list at any time during the meeting or any adjournment.</p><p>D. If the corporation refuses to allow a member, the member's agent, or the member's attorney to inspect a members' list before or at the meeting as provided in subsections B and C, or to copy a list as permitted by subsection B, the circuit court of the county or city where the corporation's principal office, or if none in the Commonwealth its registered office, is located, on application of the member, may summarily order the inspection or copying at the corporation's expense and may postpone the meeting for which the list was prepared until the inspection or copying is complete.</p><p>E. Refusal or failure to prepare or make available a members' list does not affect the validity of action taken at the meeting.</p><p>1985, c. 522; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0265'>265</a>.</p>