# ยง 29.1-514 Nonmigratory game birds.

<p>A. The following nonmigratory game birds may be hunted during prescribed open seasons:</p><p>Birds introduced by the Board.</p><p>Bobwhite quail.</p><p>Grouse.</p><p>Pheasants.</p><p>Turkey.</p><p>B. The following provisions shall also be applicable to the raising and hunting of the particular nonmigratory game bird species listed:</p><p>1. The Board may issue a permit to raise or purchase pheasants which shall entitle the permittee to release pheasants raised or purchased by him on land owned or leased by him, and such pheasants may be hunted under rules and regulations promulgated by the Board.</p><p>2. The Board may open the season, including Sunday operation, on pen-raised game birds on controlled shooting areas licensed under Chapter 6 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-600/'>29.1-600</a> et seq.) of this title under regulations as may be promulgated by the Board. However, the regulations promulgated by the Board shall not allow Sunday operation in Augusta County, or in any county or city which prohibits Sunday operation by ordinance.</p><p>Prior to obtaining a license from the Board to operate a commercially operated controlled shooting area, an applicant shall (i) notify adjoining landowners of the proposed use and (ii) obtain approval from the governing body of the county, city or town that such activity is permitted under existing ordinances. The requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) shall only apply to applications filed on or after July 1, 1993, for commercially operated controlled shooting area licenses issued under Chapter 6 of this title and shall not apply to existing preserve licenses or renewals issued for the shooting of pen-raised game birds.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 29-136; 1954, c. 228; 1956, c. 375; 1960, c. 590; 1987, c. 488; 1993, c. 87; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>.</p>