# ยง 30-80 Duties and powers.

<p>A. The areas of review and evaluation to be conducted by the Commission shall include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) structure and governance of the Retirement System; (ii) structure of the investment portfolio; (iii) investment practices, policies, and performance, including the effect of investment performance on employer contributions; (iv) actuarial policy and the actuarial soundness of the Retirement System's trust funds; and (v) administration and management of the Retirement System.</p><p>B. For the purpose of carrying out its duties under this chapter and notwithstanding any contrary provision of law, the Commission shall have the following powers, including but not limited to:</p><p>1. Access to the information, records, and facilities of the Retirement System and any corporations or subsidiaries thereof or other entities owned, directly or indirectly, or otherwise created by or on behalf of the System.</p><p>2. Access to the public and executive session meetings and records of the board of trustees of the System, as well as those of the System's investment advisory committee and real estate advisory committee. Access shall include the right to attend such meetings.</p><p>3. Access to the System's employees, consultants, actuaries, investment managers, advisors, attorneys, accountants, or other contractors in the employ or hire of the Virginia Retirement System. Such persons shall cooperate with the Commission and upon its request shall provide specific information or opinions in the form requested.</p><p>4. The chairman of the Commission may appoint a permanent subcommittee to provide guidance and direction for oversight activities, subject to the full Commission's supervision and such guidelines as the Commission itself may provide.</p><p>C. Confidential or proprietary records of the Virginia Retirement System or its subsidiary corporations provided to the Commission shall be exempted from the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-3700/'>2.2-3700</a> et seq.).</p><p>1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0003'>3</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0732'>732</a>.</p>