# ยง 3.2-3606 Distributor required to obtain license; fee.

<p>A. It is unlawful for any person whose name appears upon the label of any regulated product as distributor to distribute a regulated product without first obtaining a license to distribute the regulated product in the Commonwealth. The person who distributes the regulated product shall file an application with the Commissioner on a form furnished by the Commissioner, and pay to the Commissioner a license fee of $50.</p><p>B. Any person who distributes a regulated product shall obtain a license prior to distributing any regulated product for each manufacturing location that he operates and that distributes any regulated product within the Commonwealth. The person who distributes a regulated product shall apply for a license on a form furnished by the Commissioner, and pay to the Commissioner a license fee of $50 for each manufacturing location that distributes in the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The license application shall include the name and address of the applicant and the name and address of the applicant's distribution points in the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. The licensee shall place the name and address shown on the license on:</p><p>1. The labels of any regulated product, and pertinent invoices thereof, distributed by the licensee in the Commonwealth; and</p><p>2. All storage facilities for any regulated product distributed by the licensee in the Commonwealth.</p><p>E. The licensee shall inform the Commissioner in writing of additional distribution points established during the period of the license.</p><p>F. Any new applicant who fails to obtain a license within 15 working days of notification of the requirement to obtain a license, or any licensee who fails to comply with the license renewal requirements, shall pay a $35 late fee to the Commissioner in addition to the license fee.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0740'>740</a>, ยง 3.1-106.6; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0104'>104</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0473'>473</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0552'>552</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0564'>564</a>.</p>