# § 15.2-404 Appointment and compensation of officers and employees of county.

<p>A. The board shall, except as otherwise provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-408/'>15.2-408</a> and except as the board may authorize any officer or the head of any office to appoint employees under such officer or in such office, appoint all officers and employees, including deputies and assistants, in the administrative service of the county. Any officer or employee of the county appointed pursuant to this section may be suspended or removed from office or employment either by the board or the officer or head of the office by whom he was appointed or employed.</p><p>B. In the event of the absence or disability of any officer except those named in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-408/'>15.2-408</a>, the board or other appointing power may designate some responsible person to perform the duties of the office.</p><p>C. The board shall, subject to such limitations as may hereafter be prescribed by general law and except as herein otherwise provided, fix the compensation of all officers and employees of the county except as it may authorize any officer or the head of any office to fix the compensation of employees under such officer or in such office. The compensation of the attorney for the Commonwealth, the commissioner of the revenue, the county clerk, the sheriff, and the treasurer of the county, and the deputies, assistants and employees of such officers, shall be determined and paid in the manner which is or may hereafter be provided for the determination and payment of the salary of each such officer, respectively, by other provisions of general law.</p><p>D. The chairman of the board shall receive compensation not in excess of $3,000 per annum, and each of the other board members shall receive not in excess of $2,700 per annum. Alternatively, the chairman and other board members may be compensated in accordance with the provisions of general law as specified in Article 1.1 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1414.1/'>15.2-1414.1</a> et seq.) of Chapter 14 of this title. However, in Carroll County and Grayson County, the chairman and other board members shall be compensated as provided for in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1414.2/'>15.2-1414.2</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, § 15-367; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-702; 1972, cc. 809, 815; 1973, c. 271; 1976, c. 92; 1981, c. 92; 1997, c. 587; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0613'>613</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0953'>953</a>.</p>