# ยง 6.2-1533 Books, accounts, and records; pledge or deposit of notes and securities.

<p>A. Each licensee shall maintain in its authorized consumer finance company office, or at such other place within or outside the Commonwealth as the Commission may approve, such books, accounts, and records as the Commission may reasonably require to determine whether the licensee is complying with the provisions of this chapter and with regulations adopted in furtherance thereof. Such books, accounts, and records shall be maintained in paper form or, with the Commission's approval, in any electronic format available for examination on the basis of computer printed reproduction, video display, or other medium. Any books, accounts, and records not maintained in paper form shall be convertible into clearly legible paper documents within a reasonable time. Every licensee shall preserve the books, accounts, and records for at least three years after making the final entry on any loan recorded therein.</p><p>B. If any note or security taken under this chapter shall be pledged as collateral or deposited within or outside the Commonwealth, the licensee shall notify promptly the Commission in writing of the identity and location of the person holding such paper. Prior approval of the Commission shall not be required. Any pledged or deposited paper shall be subject to examination by the Commission in accordance with subsection C as fully as if maintained in an approved location.</p><p>C. All books, accounts, and records shall be subject to examination by the Commission. If such books, accounts, and records are examined outside the Commonwealth, all reasonable costs associated with such examination shall be paid by the licensee.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 6-329; 1966, c. 584, ยง 6.1-300; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0044'>44</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>