# ยง 2.2-2341 Relationship to the City of Hampton.

<p>A. All of Fort Monroe is within the City of Hampton's jurisdictional limits; therefore, the City of Hampton is the locality and Virginia municipal corporation for the Authority's Area of Operation. Nothing in this article is intended to limit or restrict the otherwise existing authority of the City of Hampton which, except as otherwise provided in this article, is reserved solely for the City of Hampton. As authorized in this article, the Authority may supplement in its Area of Operation the works, services, privileges, or facilities provided by the City of Hampton to provide additional, more complete, or more timely works, services, privileges, or facilities than provided by the City of Hampton.</p><p>B. The Authority shall adopt procedures for the implementation of required actions under the Programmatic Agreement and any other agreements regarding Fort Monroe to which the Commonwealth is a party, including adherence to the Reuse Plan and the Design Standards adopted by the Authority. Those procedures shall provide the City of Hampton a reasonable opportunity for review and comment regarding any proposed actions.</p><p>C. The City shall be responsible for dealing directly with any taxpayers at Fort Monroe regarding the collection of any taxes or fees which the City believes are due based on real property interests, business activity, ownership of personal property, and other authorized taxes and fees, unless the City and the Authority agree differently in writing.</p><p>D. In its comprehensive plan and in adopting a zoning ordinance for the Area of Operation, the City shall recognize the authority of the federal and state obligations for land use regulation placed upon the Fort Monroe Authority by the requirements of the Fort Monroe Master Plan, Programmatic Agreement, Design Standards, Reuse Plan, State Memorandum of Understanding, and any other agreements regarding Fort Monroe to which the Commonwealth is a party.</p><p>2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0676'>676</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0681'>681</a>.</p>