# § 38.2-1840 Renewal application and fee; compliance with continuing education requirements; reinstatement; waiver.

<p>A. Beginning January 1, 2021, each insurance consultant shall submit biennially to the Commission a renewal application in a form and manner prescribed by the Commission, along with a nonrefundable renewal application processing fee prescribed by the Commission, for the renewal of the license. Licenses shall be renewed biennially based on the insurance consultant's month and year of birth. The license for a consultant born in an even-numbered year shall expire at the end of the consultant's birth month in even-numbered years. The license for a consultant born in an odd-numbered year shall expire at the end of the consultant's birth month in odd-numbered years. Any consultant license for which the renewal application and nonrefundable renewal application processing fee have been received by the Commission and all other applicable licensing and renewal provisions in this chapter have been met shall, unless the license has been terminated, suspended, or revoked, be renewed for a two-year period. Any consultant license for which the renewal application and nonrefundable renewal application processing fee have not been received by the Commission shall automatically be terminated.</p><p>B. Each individual insurance consultant who is not exempt under § <a href='/vacode/38.2-1871/'>38.2-1871</a> shall submit to the Virginia Insurance Continuing Education Board or its administrator proof of compliance with the continuing education requirements set forth in Article 7 (§ <a href='/vacode/38.2-1866/'>38.2-1866</a> et seq.) on a biennial basis in conjunction with the insurance consultant's license renewal. The insurance consultant's license shall not be renewed if the agent has failed to satisfy the applicable continuing education requirements.</p><p>C. On or before May 1, 2021, and biennially thereafter, each business entity licensed as a consultant shall submit to the Commission a renewal application, along with a nonrefundable renewal application processing fee prescribed by the Commission, for the renewal of the license. Any consultant license for which the renewal application and nonrefundable renewal application processing fee have been received by the Commission and all other applicable licensing and renewal provisions in this chapter have been met shall, unless the license has been terminated, suspended, or revoked, be renewed for a two-year period. Any consultant license for which the renewal application and nonrefundable renewal application processing fee have not been received by the Commission shall automatically be terminated.</p><p>D. The nonrefundable renewal processing fee shall be paid in a manner and in an amount prescribed by the Commission. All fees shall be collected by the Commission and paid directly into the state treasury and credited to the fund for the maintenance of the Bureau of Insurance as provided in subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/38.2-400/'>38.2-400</a>.</p><p>E. An individual insurance consultant whose license terminates due to failure to renew may, within 12 months from the renewal date, reinstate the same license without the necessity of passing a written examination by:</p><p>1. Submitting a renewal application;</p><p>2. Submitting a nonrefundable reinstatement processing fee equivalent to double the nonrefundable renewal application processing fee; and</p><p>3. Satisfying the relevant continuing education requirements.</p><p>F. An individual insurance consultant who is unable to comply with the license renewal requirements due to military service or another extenuating circumstance such as a long-term illness or incapacity may request a waiver of those requirements. Requests for waivers of renewal requirements shall be made in a form and manner prescribed by the Commission. Insurance consultants seeking a waiver of renewal requirements shall submit all documentation specified by the Commission so as to be received by the Commission no later than the last day of the renewal period. After the renewal period, insurance consultants who have failed to complete the renewal waiver requirements may request a waiver from the reinstatement requirements set forth in subdivisions E 1 and 2 within the 12-month reinstatement period. The Commission shall approve or disapprove the waiver request within 30 calendar days of receipt thereof, and shall provide written notice of its decision to the applicant for waiver within five calendar days of rendering its decision. Any waiver granted pursuant to this section shall be valid only for the renewal period or reinstatement period for which the waiver request was made.</p><p>1985, c. 3, § 38.1-327.65; 1986, c. 562; 1987, cc. 521, 678; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0316'>316</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0044'>44</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0675'>675</a>.</p>