# ยง 18.2-340.34 Suppliers of charitable gaming supplies; manufacturers of electronic gaming devices; permit; qualification; suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew certificate; maintenance, production and release of records.

<p>A. No person shall offer to sell, sell, or otherwise provide charitable gaming supplies to any qualified organization and no manufacturer shall distribute electronic gaming devices for charitable gaming in the Commonwealth unless and until such person has made application for and has been issued a permit by the Department. An application for permit shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department and shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $1,000. Each permit shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. Application for renewal of a permit shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $1,000 and shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall have authority to prescribe by regulation reasonable criteria consistent with the provisions of this article for the registration of suppliers and manufacturers of electronic gaming devices for charitable gaming. The Department shall refuse to issue a permit to any supplier or manufacturer who has, or which has any officer, director, partner, or owner who has, (i) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony in any state or federal court or has been convicted of any offense that, if committed in the Commonwealth, would be a felony; (ii) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime involving gambling; (iii) violated the gaming laws of any jurisdiction within the last five years, including violations for failure to register; or (iv) had any license, permit, certificate, or other authority related to charitable gaming suspended or revoked in the Commonwealth or in any other jurisdiction within the last five years. The Department may refuse to issue a permit to any supplier or manufacturer who has, or which has any officer, director, partner, or owner who has, (a) failed to file or has been delinquent in excess of one year in the filing of any tax returns or the payment of any taxes due the Commonwealth or (b) failed to establish a registered office or registered agent in the Commonwealth if so required by ยง <a href='/vacode/13.1-634/'>13.1-634</a> or <a href='/vacode/13.1-763/'>13.1-763</a>.</p><p>C. The Department shall suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the permit of any supplier or manufacturer for any conduct described in clause (i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of subsection B. The Department shall suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the permit of any supplier or manufacturer for any conduct described in clause (a) or (b) of subsection B or for any violation of this article or regulation of the Department. Before taking any such action, the Department shall give the supplier or manufacturer a written statement of the grounds upon which it proposes to take such action and an opportunity to be heard. Every hearing in a contested case shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.).</p><p>D. Each supplier shall document each sale of charitable gaming supplies, including electronic gaming devices, and other items incidental to the conduct of charitable gaming, such as markers, wands, or tape, to a qualified organization on an invoice which clearly shows (i) the name and address of the qualified organization to which such supplies or items were sold; (ii) the date of the sale; (iii) the name or form and serial number of each deal of instant bingo cards and pull-tab raffle cards, the quantity of deals sold, and the price per deal paid by the qualified organization; (iv) the serial number of the top sheet in each packet of bingo paper, the serial number for each series of uncollated bingo paper, and the cut, color, and quantity of bingo paper sold; and (v) any other information with respect to charitable gaming supplies, including electronic gaming devices, or other items incidental to the conduct of charitable gaming as the Commissioner may prescribe by regulation. A legible copy of the invoice shall accompany the charitable gaming supplies when delivered to the qualified organization.</p><p>Each manufacturer of electronic gaming devices shall document each distribution of such devices to a qualified organization or supplier on an invoice which clearly shows (a) the name and address of the qualified organization or supplier to which such systems were distributed; (b) the date of distribution; (c) the serial number of each such device; and (d) any other information with respect to electronic gaming devices as the Commissioner may prescribe by regulation. A legible copy of the invoice shall accompany the electronic gaming devices when delivered to the qualified organization or supplier.</p><p>E. Each supplier and manufacturer shall maintain a legible copy of each invoice required by subsection D for a period of three years from the date of sale. Each supplier and manufacturer shall make such documents immediately available for inspection and copying to any agent or employee of the Department upon request made during normal business hours. This subsection shall not limit the right of the Department to require the production of any other documents in the possession of the supplier or manufacturer which relate to its transactions with qualified organizations. All documents and other information of a proprietary nature furnished to the Department in accordance with this subsection shall not be a matter of public record and shall be exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-3700/'>2.2-3700</a> et seq.).</p><p>F. Each supplier and manufacturer shall provide to the Department the results of background checks and any other records or documents necessary for the Department to enforce the provisions of subsections B and C.</p><p>1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0837'>837</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0919'>919</a>; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0777'>777</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0838'>838</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0534'>534</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0884'>884</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0644'>644</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0264'>264</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0520'>520</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0553'>553</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0554'>554</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0609'>609</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0722'>722</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>.</p>