# ยง 11-34.3 (Repealed effective October 1, 2021) Energy Performance-Based Contract Procedures; required contract provisions.

<p>A. Any contracting entity may enter into an energy performance-based contract with an energy performance contractor to significantly reduce energy costs to a level established by the public body or operating costs of a facility through one or more energy conservation or operational efficiency measures. For the purposes of this chapter, energy conservation or operational efficiency measures shall not include roof replacement projects.</p><p>B. The energy performance contractor shall be selected through competitive sealed bidding or competitive negotiation as set forth in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4302.1/'>2.2-4302.1</a> or <a href='/vacode/2.2-4302.2/'>2.2-4302.2</a>. The evaluation of the request for proposal shall analyze the estimates of all costs of installation, maintenance, repairs, debt service, post installation project monitoring and reporting. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any contracting entity may purchase energy conservation or operational efficiency measures under an energy performance-based contract entered into by another contracting entity pursuant to this chapter even if it did not participate in the request for proposals if the request for proposals specified that the procurement was being conducted on behalf of other contracting entities.</p><p>C. Before entering into a contract for energy conservation measures and facility technology infrastructure upgrades and modernization measures, the contracting entity shall require the performance contractor to provide a payment and performance bond relating to the installation of energy conservation measures and facility technology infrastructure upgrades and modernization measures in the amount the contracting entity finds reasonable and necessary to protect its interests.</p><p>D. Prior to the design and installation of the energy conservation measure, the contracting entity shall obtain from the energy performance contractor a report disclosing all costs associated with the energy conservation measure and providing an estimate of the amount of the energy cost savings. After reviewing the report, the contracting entity may enter into an energy performance-based contract if it finds (i) the amount the entity would spend on the energy conservation measures and facility and technology infrastructure upgrades and modernization measures recommended in the report will not exceed the amount to be saved in energy and operation costs more than 20 years from the date of installation, based on life-cycle costing calculations, if the recommendations in the report were followed and (ii) the energy performance contractor provides a written guarantee that the energy and operating cost savings will meet or exceed the costs of the system. The contract may provide for payments over a period of time not to exceed 20 years.</p><p>E. The term of any energy performance-based contract shall expire at the end of each fiscal year but may be renewed annually up to 20 years, subject to the contracting entity making sufficient annual appropriations based upon continued realized cost savings. Such contracts shall stipulate that the agreement does not constitute a debt, liability, or obligation of the contracting entity, or a pledge of the faith and credit of the contracting entity. Such contract may also provide capital contributions for the purchase and installation of energy conservation and facility and technology infrastructure upgrades and modernization measures that cannot be totally funded by the energy and operational savings.</p><p>F. An energy performance-based contract shall include the following provisions:</p><p>1. A guarantee by the energy performance contractor that annual energy and operational cost savings will meet or exceed the amortized cost of energy conservation measures. The guaranteed energy savings contract shall include a written guarantee of the qualified provider that either the energy or operational cost savings, or both, will meet or exceed within 20 years the costs of the energy and operational savings measures. The qualified provider shall reimburse the contracting entity for any shortfall of guaranteed energy savings projected in the contract.</p><p>2. A requirement that the energy performance contractor to whom the contract is awarded provide a 100 percent performance guarantee bond to the contracting entity for the installation and faithful performance of the installed energy savings measures as outlined in the contract document.</p><p>3. A requirement that the energy performance contractor provide to the contracting entity an annual reconciliation of the guaranteed energy cost savings. The energy performance contractor shall be liable for any annual savings shortfall that may occur.</p><p>G. The Department of Mines, Minerals and Energy (the Department) shall make a reasonable effort, as long as workload permits, to:</p><p>1. Provide general advice, upon request, to local governments that wish to consider pursuit of an energy performance-based contract pursuant to this section;</p><p>2. Annually compile a list of performance-based contracts entered into by local governments of which the Department may become aware.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0219'>219</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0197'>197</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0399'>399</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0583'>583</a>; 2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0259'>259</a>.</p>