# ยง 46.2-746 Special license plates for former prisoners of war; fees.

<p>On receipt of an application and written evidence from one of the armed forces that the applicant was a prisoner of war and was honorably discharged, if not currently a member of the armed forces, the Commissioner shall issue special license plates to persons who have been prisoners of the enemy in any war. No fee shall be charged for license plates issued under the provisions of this section.</p><p>It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and falsely represent himself as having the qualifications to obtain the special plates provided for in this section.</p><p>No individual shall be issued special license plates under this section for more than one vehicle.</p><p>On presentation of appropriate written evidence from the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, special license plates provided for in this section shall also be issued by the Commissioner to persons who were not members of the armed forces.</p><p>Unremarried surviving spouses of persons eligible to receive special license plates under this section may also be issued special license plates under this section.</p><p>The provisions of subdivisions 1 and 2 of subsection B of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-725/'>46.2-725</a> shall not apply to license plates issued under this section.</p><p>1977, c. 164, ยง 46.1-105.7; 1978, c. 605; 1981, c. 125; 1982, c. 199; 1987, c. 146; 1989, c. 727; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0127'>127</a>; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>.</p>