# ยง 13.1-1247 Transaction of business without registration; civil penalty.

<p>A. A foreign business trust transacting business in the Commonwealth shall not maintain any action, suit, or proceeding in any court of the Commonwealth until it has registered in the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The successor to a foreign business trust that transacted business in the Commonwealth without registering in the Commonwealth and the assignee of a cause of action arising out of that business may not maintain a proceeding based on that cause of action in any court in the Commonwealth until the foreign business trust or its successor has registered in the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. The failure of a foreign business trust to register in the Commonwealth shall not impair the validity of any contract or act of the foreign business trust or prevent the foreign business trust from defending any action, suit, or proceeding in any court of the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. If a foreign business trust transacts business in the Commonwealth without a certificate of registration, each trustee, officer or employee of the business trust who does any such business in the Commonwealth knowing that a certificate of authority is required and has not been obtained shall be liable for a civil penalty of not less than $500 and not more than $5,000, which may be imposed by the Commission or by any court in the Commonwealth before which an action against the business trust may lie, after the business trust and the individual have been given notice and an opportunity to be heard. Civil penalties paid pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited to the credit of the Literary Fund.</p><p>E. Suits, actions, and proceedings may be initiated against a foreign business trust that transacts business in the Commonwealth without a certificate of registration by serving process on any trustee, officer, or agent of the business trust doing such business, or, if none can be found, on the clerk of the Commission or on the business trust in any other manner permitted by law. If any foreign business trust transacts business in the Commonwealth without a certificate of registration, it shall by transacting such business be deemed to have thereby appointed the clerk of the Commission its agent for service of process. Service upon the clerk shall be made in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-19.1/'>12.1-19.1</a>.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0621'>621</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0523'>523</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0025'>25</a>.</p>