# ยง 9.1-212 Marking of cigarettes.

<p>A. Cigarettes that have been certified in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-211/'>9.1-211</a> shall be marked in accordance with the requirements of this section.</p><p>B. The marking shall:</p><p>1. Be in a font of at least eight-point type; and</p><p>2. Include one of the following:</p><p>a. Modification of the product UPC bar code to include a visible mark that is printed at or around the area of the UPC bar code and consists of one or more alphanumeric or symbolic characters permanently stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed in conjunction with the UPC bar code;</p><p>b. Any visible combination of alphanumeric or symbolic characters permanently stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed on the cigarette package or the cellophane wrap; or</p><p>c. Stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed text that indicates that the cigarettes meet the standards of this chapter.</p><p>C. The manufacturer shall request approval of a proposed marking from the Director.</p><p>D. The Director shall approve or disapprove the marking offered, except that the Director shall approve:</p><p>1. The letters "FSC," which signify Fire Standards Compliant, appearing in eight-point type or larger and permanently printed, stamped, engraved, or embossed on the package at or near the UPC code; and</p><p>2. Any marking in use and approved for sale in New York pursuant to the New York fire safety standards for cigarettes.</p><p>E. A marking is deemed approved if the Director fails to act within 10 days after receiving a request for approval.</p><p>F. A manufacturer may not use a modified marking unless the modification has been approved in accordance with this section.</p><p>G. A manufacturer shall use only one marking on all brands that the manufacturer markets.</p><p>H. A marking or modified marking approved by the Director shall be applied uniformly on all brands marketed and on all packages, including packs, cartons, and cases marketed by that manufacturer.</p><p>2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0370'>370</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>.</p>