# ยง 32.1-111.12:01 Financial Assistance and Review Committee; appointment; terms; duties.

<p>A. For the purposes of administering the Virginia Rescue Squads Assistance Fund as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-111.12/'>32.1-111.12</a>, there is hereby established the Financial Assistance and Review Committee. The Committee shall be composed of six members who shall be representatives of the regions encompassed by the emergency medical services councils and appointed by the State Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board. To ensure that each regional emergency medical services council is provided an opportunity to serve on the Committee, the Board of Health shall promulgate by regulation, after receiving the Advisory Board's recommendation, a cycle which provides for rotating geographic representation among the councils.</p><p>B. Members serving on the Financial Assistance and Review Committee on January 1, 1996, shall complete their current terms of office. Thereafter, appointments shall be made for terms of three years or the unexpired portions thereof in a manner to preserve, insofar as possible, the representation of the emergency medical services councils. No member may serve more than two successive terms. The chairman shall be elected from the membership of the Committee for a term of one year and shall be eligible for reelection. The Committee shall meet at least four times annually at the call of the chairman or the Commissioner.</p><p>C. The Financial Assistance and Review Committee shall:</p><p>1. Administer the Rescue Squads Assistance Fund in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Board of Health as shall be established for the Fund;</p><p>2. Review the Rescue Squads Assistance Fund grant applications from eligible emergency medical services agencies and make recommendations on the funding of such grant applications to the Commissioner of Health; and</p><p>3. Report biannually, after each funding cycle, the number of grant applications received, the total costs of grant applications funded, the number of grant applications denied funding, the total costs of grant applications denied funding, and the nature of the denied requests and the reasons for denying funding, to the State Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board and the Commissioner.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0998'>998</a>.</p>