# ยง 3.2-5707 Certification of service technicians.

<p>A. A person shall not be certified as a service technician unless the service technician is employed by a registered service agency. Every service technician shall obtain certification by the Commissioner before operating in the Commonwealth and shall renew the certification annually. The application for certification as a service technician or renewal shall be made in writing on a form approved by the Commissioner.</p><p>B. Each application for certification or renewal thereof shall contain:</p><p>1. The full name of the applicant;</p><p>2. The name of the service agency employing the applicant;</p><p>3. The principal business address of the service agency that employs the service technician;</p><p>4. Presentation of valid proof of completion of a course of training related to weights and measures offered by the Commissioner or, in the absence of a training course offered by the Commissioner, a training course approved by the Commissioner. Except as otherwise provided by regulation, proof of completion of a course of training shall be valid for a period of three years. The Commissioner shall not require each application for renewal of a service technician certification to contain a valid proof of completion of a course of training related to weights and measures unless such course is offered by the Commissioner in an electronic format that is available to the applicant online. The Commissioner shall not charge a fee to enroll in the Commissioner's course of training related to weights and measures required for renewal of a service technician certification;</p><p>5. The fee required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-5708/'>3.2-5708</a>; and</p><p>6. A declaration by the applicant that the applicant has the authority to be lawfully employed in the United States.</p><p>C. The Commissioner may deny, suspend, or revoke any certification or renewal if the application for certification is incomplete, false, or fraudulent. It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to submit to the Commissioner an application for certification or renewal that he knows to be false or fraudulent.</p><p>1992, c. 242, ยง 3.1-969.8; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0168'>168</a>.</p>