# ยง 46.2-849 How signals given.

<p>A. Signals required by ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-848/'>46.2-848</a> shall be given by means of the hand and arm or by some mechanical or electrical device approved by the Superintendent, in the manner specified in this section. Whenever the signal is given by means of the hand and arm, the driver shall indicate his intention to start, stop, turn, or partly turn by extending the hand and arm beyond the left side of the vehicle in the manner following:</p><p>1. For left turn or to pull to the left, the arm shall be extended in a horizontal position straight from and level with the shoulder;</p><p>2. For right turn or to pull to the right, the arm shall be extended upward;</p><p>3. For slowing down or stopping, the arm shall be extended downward.</p><p>B. Wherever the lawful speed is more than 35 miles per hour, such signals shall be given continuously for a distance of at least 100 feet, and in all other cases at least 50 feet, before slowing down, stopping, turning, or partly turning.</p><p>C. A person riding a bicycle, electric personal assistive mobility device, electric power-assisted bicycle, moped, or motorized skateboard or scooter shall signal his intention to stop or turn. Such signals, however, need not be given continuously if both hands are needed in the control or operation of the bicycle, electric personal assistive mobility device, electric power-assisted bicycle, moped, or motorized skateboard or scooter.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, a person operating a bicycle, electric personal assistive mobility device, electric power-assisted bicycle, moped, or motorized skateboard or scooter may signal a right turn or pull to the right by extending the right hand and arm in a horizontal position straight from and level with the shoulder beyond the right side of the bicycle, electric personal assistive mobility device, electric power-assisted bicycle, moped, or motorized skateboard or scooter and may signal slowing down or stopping by extending the right arm downward.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 46-234; 1954, c. 15; 1958, c. 541, ยง 46.1-217; 1981, c. 585; 1989, c. 727; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0834'>834</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0254'>254</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0947'>947</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0973'>973</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0780'>780</a>.</p>