# ยง 58.1-2257 Duties of provider of alternative fuel as trustee.

<p>A. All tax payments due to the Commonwealth received by a provider of alternative fuel pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2252/'>58.1-2252</a> shall be held by the provider of alternative fuel as trustee in trust for the Commonwealth, and a provider of alternative fuel has a fiduciary duty to remit to the Commissioner the amount of tax received by the provider of alternative fuel. A provider of alternative fuel shall be liable for the taxes paid to him.</p><p>B. A provider of alternative fuel shall notify a bulk user of alternative fuel or retailer of alternative fuel who has posted a bond in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2246/'>58.1-2246</a> and who received alternative fuel from the provider of alternative fuel during a reporting period of the number of taxable gallons or equivalent taxable gallons received. The provider of alternative fuel shall give this notice after the end of each reporting period and before the licensee is required to remit to the provider of alternative fuel the amount of tax due on the fuel.</p><p>C. A provider of alternative fuel shall notify the Commissioner within ten business days after a return is due of any licensed bulk user of alternative fuel or retailer of alternative fuel who (i) has posted a bond in accordance with ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2246/'>58.1-2246</a> and (ii) did not pay the tax due the provider of alternative fuel when the provider filed his return. The notice shall be transmitted to the Commissioner in the form required by the Commissioner.</p><p>D. A provider of alternative fuel who receives a payment of tax shall not apply the payment to a debt that the person making the tax payment owes to the provider of alternative fuel for alternative fuel purchased from the provider of alternative fuel.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>.</p>