# § 58.1-2295 Levy; payment of tax.

<p>A. 1. (For contingent expiration, see Acts 2013, cc. 766) In addition to all other taxes now imposed by law, there is hereby imposed a tax upon every distributor who engages in the business of selling fuels at wholesale to retail dealers for retail sale in any county or city that is a member of (i) any transportation district in which a rapid heavy rail commuter mass transportation system operating on an exclusive right-of-way and a bus commuter mass transportation system are owned, operated, or controlled by an agency or commission as defined in § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1901/'>33.2-1901</a> or (ii) any transportation district that is subject to subsection C of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1915/'>33.2-1915</a> and that is contiguous to the Northern Virginia Transportation District.</p><p>2. (For contingent expiration, see Acts 2013, cc. 766) In addition to all other taxes now imposed by law, there is hereby imposed a tax upon every distributor who engages in the business of selling fuels at wholesale to retail dealers for retail sale in any county or city that is located in a Planning District established pursuant to Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-4200/'>15.2-4200</a> et seq.) of Title 15.2 that (i) as of January 1, 2013, has a population of not less than 1.5 million but fewer than two million, as shown by the most recent United States Census, has not less than 1.2 million but fewer than 1.7 million motor vehicles registered therein, and has a total transit ridership of not less than 15 million but fewer than 50 million riders per year across all transit systems within the Planning District or (ii) as shown by the most recent United States Census meets the population criteria set forth in clause (i) and also meets the vehicle registration and ridership criteria set forth in clause (i). In any case in which the tax is imposed pursuant to clause (ii), such tax shall be effective beginning on the July 1 immediately following the calendar year in which all of the criteria have been met.</p><p>3. (For contingent expiration, see Acts 2019, cc. 837 and 846) In addition to all other taxes now imposed by law, there is hereby imposed a tax upon every distributor who engages in the business of selling fuels at wholesale to retail dealers for retail sale in (i) any county or city, or (ii) any city wholly embraced by a county, through which an interstate passes that (a) is more than 300 miles in length in the Commonwealth and (b) as of January 1, 2019, carried more than 40 percent of interstate vehicle miles traveled for vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher.</p><p>4. (For contingent expiration, see Acts 2020, cc. 1230 and 1275) In addition to all other taxes now imposed by law, there is hereby imposed a tax upon every distributor who engages in the business of selling fuels at wholesale to retail dealers for retail sale in any county or city in which a tax is not otherwise imposed pursuant to this section.</p><p>5. (For contingent expiration, see Acts 2020, cc. 1235) In addition to all other taxes now imposed by law, there is hereby imposed a tax upon every distributor who engages in the business of selling fuels at wholesale to retail dealers for retail sale in any county or city located in Planning District 15, as established pursuant to Chapter 42 (§ <a href='/vacode/15.2-4200/'>15.2-4200</a>) of Title 15.2, in which a tax is not otherwise imposed pursuant to this section.</p><p>B. 1. The tax shall be imposed on each gallon of fuel, other than diesel fuel, sold by a distributor to a retail dealer for retail sale in any such county or city described in subsection A at a rate of 7.6 cents per gallon on gasoline and gasohol. Beginning July 1, 2021, the tax rate shall be adjusted annually based on the greater of (i) the change in the United States Average Consumer Price Index for all items, all urban consumers (CPI-U), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the U.S. Department of Labor for the previous year, or (ii) zero. For alternative fuels other than liquid alternative fuels, the Commissioner shall determine an equivalent tax rate based on gasoline gallon equivalency.</p><p>2. The tax shall be imposed on each gallon of diesel fuel sold by a distributor to a retail dealer for retail sale in any such county or city at a rate of 7.7 cents per gallon on diesel fuel. Beginning July 1, 2021, the tax rate shall be adjusted annually based on the greater of (i) the change in the United States Average Consumer Price Index for all items, all urban consumers (CPI-U), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the U.S. Department of Labor for the previous year or (ii) zero.</p><p>C. The tax levied under this section shall be imposed at the time of sale by the distributor to the retail dealer.</p><p>D. The tax imposed by this section shall be paid by the distributor, but the distributor shall separately state the amount of the tax and add such tax to the price or charge. Thereafter, such tax shall be a debt from the retail dealer to the distributor until paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts. No action at law or suit in equity under this chapter shall be maintained in the Commonwealth by any distributor who is not registered under § <a href='/vacode/58.1-2299.2/'>58.1-2299.2</a> or is delinquent in the payment of taxes imposed under this chapter.</p><p>E. Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt the imposition and remittance of tax pursuant to this section in a sale to a retail dealer in which the distributor and the retail dealer are the same person.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0217'>217</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0225'>225</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0766'>766</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0797'>797</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0798'>798</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1235'>1235</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>