# § 24.2-948.1 Exemption from reporting requirements for certain candidates for local office and for directors of soil and water conservation districts.

<p>A. This section shall apply to candidates for local office and for director of soil and water conservation districts. A candidate for local office or for director of a soil and water conservation district may seek an exemption from the requirements for filing campaign finance disclosure reports set out in this chapter except for the filing requirements of §§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-945.2/'>24.2-945.2</a>, <a href='/vacode/24.2-947.1/'>24.2-947.1</a>, <a href='/vacode/24.2-947.9/'>24.2-947.9</a>, and <a href='/vacode/24.2-948.4/'>24.2-948.4</a> pertaining to certain independent expenditures, the statement of organization, large contributions, and the filing of a final report. The request for an exemption shall be filed with the general registrar of the county or city where the candidate resides on a form prescribed by the State Board and in accordance with instructions by the State Board for the time for filing and the process for approval by the general registrar.</p><p>B. To qualify for an exemption, the candidate shall certify on the form that (i) he has not and will not solicit or accept any contribution from any other person or political committee during the course of his campaign, (ii) he has not and will not contribute to his own campaign more than $1,000, (iii) he has not and will not expend more than $1,000 in the course of his campaign, and (iv) that he has complied and will comply with the requirements of this chapter. This certification shall apply for the duration of the campaign until the filing of a final report in compliance with § <a href='/vacode/24.2-948.4/'>24.2-948.4</a> after the election. A candidate may rescind his certification and exemption at any time during the campaign and shall file in accordance with the appropriate filing schedule thereafter, provided that the candidate rescinds his certification prior to engaging in the activities described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of this subsection. The first report filed shall account for all prior contributions and expenditures pertaining to his campaign.</p><p>C. Any candidate who has qualified for an exemption from reporting requirements pursuant to this section shall not be permitted to qualify for any office, enter upon the duties thereof, or receive any salary or emoluments therefrom until a final report has been filed that details all financial activity of the candidate's campaign and states that all reporting for the nomination and election is complete and final. No officer authorized by the laws of the Commonwealth to issue certificates of election shall issue one to any person determined to be elected to any such office, until copies of the final report cited above have been filed as required in this chapter.</p><p>D. A candidate who has a current exemption under the provisions of this section, or who is otherwise exempt from reporting contributions and expenditures under this chapter, may purchase voter lists from the State Board under the provisions of §§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-405/'>24.2-405</a> and <a href='/vacode/24.2-406/'>24.2-406</a> with a check drawn on the candidate's personal account.</p><p>2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>, § 24.2-906.1; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0384'>384</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0787'>787</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0892'>892</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0696'>696</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0644'>644</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0645'>645</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0772'>772</a>.</p>