# ยง 13.1-841 Corporate action without meeting.

<p>A. 1. Corporate action required or permitted by this chapter to be taken at a meeting of the members may be taken without a meeting and without prior notice if the corporate action is taken by all members entitled to vote on the corporate action, in which case no corporate action by the board of directors shall be required.</p><p>2. Notwithstanding subdivision 1 of this subsection, if so provided in the articles of incorporation of a corporation, corporate action required or permitted by this chapter to be taken at a meeting of members may be taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if the corporate action is taken by members who would be entitled to vote at a meeting of members having voting power to cast not fewer than the minimum number (or numbers, in the case of voting by voting groups) of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take the corporate action at a meeting at which all members entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.</p><p>3. The corporate action shall be evidenced by one or more written consents bearing the date of execution and describing the corporate action taken, signed by the members entitled to take such corporate action without a meeting and delivered to the secretary of the corporation for inclusion in the minutes or filing with the corporate records. Any corporate action taken by written consent shall be effective according to its terms when the requisite consents are in possession of the corporation. Corporate action taken under this section is effective as of the date specified therein, provided the consent states the date of execution by each member.</p><p>B. If not otherwise determined under ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-840/'>13.1-840</a> or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-844/'>13.1-844</a>, the record date for determining members entitled to take corporate action without a meeting is the date the first member signs the consent under subsection A. No written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 120 days after the earliest date of execution appearing on a consent delivered to the corporation in the manner required by this section, written consents sufficient in number to take corporate action are received by the corporation. A written consent may be revoked by a writing to that effect received by the corporation prior to receipt by the corporation of unrevoked written consents sufficient in number to take corporate action.</p><p>C. For purposes of this section, written consent may be accomplished by one or more electronic transmissions, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-803/'>13.1-803</a>. A consent signed under this section has the effect of a vote of voting members at a meeting and may be described as such in any document filed with the Commission under this chapter.</p><p>D. If corporate action is to be taken under this section by fewer than all of the members entitled to vote on the action, the corporation shall give written notice of the proposed corporate action, not less than five days before the action is taken, to all persons who are members on the record date and who are entitled to vote on the matter. The notice shall contain or be accompanied by the same material that under this chapter would have been required to be sent to members in a notice of meeting at which the corporate action would have been submitted to the members for a vote.</p><p>E. If this chapter requires that notice of proposed corporate action be given to nonvoting members and the corporate action is to be taken by consent of the voting members, the corporation shall give its nonvoting members written notice of the proposed action not less than five days before it is taken. The notice shall contain or be accompanied by the same material that under this chapter would have been required to be sent to nonvoting members in a notice of meeting at which the corporate action would have been submitted to the members for a vote.</p><p>F. Any person, whether or not then a member, may provide that a consent in writing as a member shall be effective at a future time, including the time when an event occurs, but such future time shall not be more than 60 days after such provision is made. Any such consent shall be deemed to have been made for purposes of this section at the future time so specified for the consent to be effective, provided that (i) the person is a member at such future time and (ii) the person did not revoke the consent prior to such future time.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 13.1-216; 1956, c. 428; 1985, c. 522; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0611'>611</a>.</p>