# § 58.1-4020.1 Voluntary assignment of lottery prizes or pledge as collateral for a loan; requirements for the assignees and lenders.

<p>A. Lottery prizes, payable in installments over a period of time, excluding prizes payable for the winner's life, may be voluntarily assigned or pledged as collateral for a loan, in whole or in part, by the person entitled to such installments, by written contract affirming that the requirements of this section have been met and endorsed by written order of a court of competent jurisdiction after a hearing. The order shall specify the name, address and social security number or tax identification number of the assignee or lender and shall specifically describe the payments be assigned or pledged as collateral by date and gross pre-tax amount. The Department shall be given notice of any hearing held pursuant to this section and shall have the right to appear and participate in such hearing. Venue for hearings held pursuant to this section shall be in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond.</p><p>The rate charged for any such assignment or loan shall not exceed 15 percent.</p><p>The contract shall:</p><p>1. Be signed by the assignor and the assignee or the lender and the borrower, and the assignor or borrower shall affirm the assignment or loan has been voluntarily executed.</p><p>2. Include or be accompanied by a sworn statement attesting that the assignor or borrower (i) is of sound mind and not acting under duress; (ii) has been advised in writing by the assignee or lender to seek independent legal counsel and independent financial counsel concerning the implications of the assignment or loan, including the tax consequences, and has either received such advice or knowingly waived such advice in writing; (iii) understands that he is relinquishing or limiting his rights to receive the lottery proceeds; and (iv) has received from the Virginia Lottery, in response to a written request therefor, confirmation of the assignee's or lender's registration with the Virginia Lottery in accordance with subsection E of this section.</p><p>3. Include a disclosure statement setting forth (i) the amounts assigned or loaned; (ii) the dates such amounts are payable; (iii) the purchase price paid for the assignment or loan; (iv) the rate of discount to present value, assuming daily compounding and funding on the contract date; (v) the amount of any fees associated with the assignment or loan and by whom such fees are payable; and (vi) the tax identification number of the assignee.</p><p>4. Expressly state that the assignor or borrower has three business days after signing the contract to cancel the assignment or loan.</p><p>5. Expressly state that the assignee or lender is eligible to purchase, share or receive prizes of the Virginia Lottery pursuant to §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-4015/'>58.1-4015</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-4016/'>58.1-4016</a> and subsection A of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-4019/'>58.1-4019</a>, and that the Virginia Lottery has complied with subsection B of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-4019/'>58.1-4019</a> in that the original prizewinner is (or if deceased, was) a natural person if and to the extent that the prize was awarded on or after the effective date pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-4019/'>58.1-4019</a>.</p><p>6. Expressly state that no amounts assigned or loaned are subject to setoff pursuant to Article 21 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-520/'>58.1-520</a> et seq.) of Chapter 3 of this title.</p><p>B. The Commonwealth, the Virginia Lottery and any employee or representative of either shall be indemnified and held harmless upon payment of amounts due as set forth in the court order.</p><p>C. The Lottery may establish a reasonable fee to process the assignments provided for in this section and to receive, review and file the registration required by subsection E and confirm compliance with the registration requirements. The fee shall be reflective of the direct and indirect costs of processing the assignments or registrations.</p><p>D. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Commonwealth and the Virginia Lottery shall not accept any assignment if either of the following has occurred:</p><p>1. Federal law provides that the right to assign lottery proceeds is deemed receipt of income in the year the lottery prize is won for all installment lottery prize winners. "Federal law" includes statutory law, rulings of courts of competent jurisdiction, and published rulings by the Internal Revenue Service.</p><p>2. State law provides that the right to assign lottery proceeds is deemed receipt of income in the year the lottery prize is won for all installment lottery prize winners. "State law" includes statutory law, rulings of courts of competent jurisdiction, and published rulings by the Department of Taxation.</p><p>E. An assignee, prospective assignee, lender or prospective lender shall not make any representation in any written or oral communications with a lottery winner that implies that the assignee, prospective assignee, lender or prospective lender is associated with or an agent of the Virginia Lottery. Every prospective assignee or prospective lender shall register with the Virginia Lottery, prior to contracting for any assignment or loan pursuant to this section. The registration shall include (i) the assignee's or lender's standard information packet or materials given or sent to prospective assignees or borrowers, (ii) the assignee's or lender's standard form of agreement, (iii) the assignee's or lender's federal tax identification number, and (iv) where applicable, the assignee's or lender's most recent public financial statement. The Director may deny, suspend or revoke a registration for a violation of this chapter or for such other reason as the Board, by regulation, may establish.</p><p>2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0924'>924</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0630'>630</a>.</p>