# ยง 2.2-2001.4 Military medical personnel; program.

<p>A. For the purposes of this section, "military medical personnel" means an individual who has recently served as a medic in the United States Army, medical technician in the United States Air Force, or corpsman in the United States Navy or the United States Coast Guard and who was discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable.</p><p>B. The Department, in collaboration with the Department of Health Professions, shall establish a program in which military medical personnel may practice and perform certain delegated acts that constitute the practice of medicine or nursing in accordance with subsection B of ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2901/'>54.1-2901</a> or subsection B of ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-3001/'>54.1-3001</a>. Such activities shall reflect the level of training and experience of the military medical personnel. The supervising physician or podiatrist shall retain responsibility for the care of the patient.</p><p>C. Any licensed physician or podiatrist, professional corporation or partnership of any licensee, hospital, commercial enterprise having medical facilities for its employees that are supervised by one or more physicians or podiatrists, or facility that offers medical services to the public and that is supervised by one or more physicians or podiatrists may participate in such program.</p><p>D. The Department shall establish general requirements for military medical personnel, licensees, and employers participating in the military medical personnel program established pursuant to subsection B.</p><p>E. The Department shall assist veterans and other service members who are preparing for discharge or release and who have recently served in health care-related specialties but who do not meet the definition of "military medical personnel" in finding employment in the health care sector.</p><p>2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0212'>212</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0418'>418</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0069'>69</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0338'>338</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0231'>231</a>.</p>