# ยง 4.1-1101 Home cultivation of marijuana for personal use; penalties.

<p>A. Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision c of ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-248.1/'>18.2-248.1</a>, a person 21 years of age or older may cultivate up to four marijuana plants for personal use at their place of residence; however, at no point shall a household contain more than four marijuana plants. For purposes of this section, a "household" means those individuals, whether related or not, who live in the same house or other place of residence.</p><p>A person may only cultivate marijuana plants pursuant to this section at such person's main place of residence.</p><p>B. A person who cultivates marijuana for personal use pursuant to this section shall:</p><p>1. Ensure that no marijuana  plant is visible from a public way without the use of aircraft, binoculars, or other optical aids;</p><p>2. Take precautions to prevent unauthorized access by persons younger than 21 years of age; and</p><p>3. Attach to each marijuana plant a legible tag that includes the person's name, driver's license or identification number, and a notation that the marijuana plant is being grown for personal use as authorized under this section.</p><p>C. A person shall not manufacture marijuana concentrate from home-cultivated marijuana. The owner of a property or parcel or tract of land may not intentionally or knowingly allow another person to manufacture marijuana concentrate from home-cultivated marijuana within or on that property or land.</p><p>D. The following penalties or punishments shall be imposed on any person convicted of a violation of this section:</p><p>1. For possession of more than four marijuana plants but no more than 10 marijuana plants, (i) a civil penalty of $250 for a first offense, (ii) a Class 3 misdemeanor for a second offense, and (iii) a Class 2 misdemeanor for a third and any subsequent offense;</p><p>2. For possession of more than 10 but no more than 49 marijuana plants, a Class 1 misdemeanor;</p><p>3. For possession of more than 49 but no more than 100 marijuana plants, a Class 6 felony; and</p><p>4. For possession of more than 100 marijuana plants, a felony punishable by a term of imprisonment of not less than one year nor more than 10 years and a fine of not more than $250,000, or both.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551'>551</a>.</p>