# ยง 38.2-2903 Directors.

<p>A. The Association shall be governed by a board of 11 directors, including one who shall be elected chairman. Two directors shall be appointed by each of the following three insurance industry trade associations: (i) the American Insurance Association; (ii) the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America; and (iii) the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies. One director shall be appointed by each of the following two insurance agents' trade associations: (a) the Independent Insurance Agents of Virginia and (b) the Professional Insurance Agents Association of Virginia and the District of Columbia. The Commission shall appoint three directors not affiliated with the aforementioned trade associations. If, for any reason, any of the trade associations fail to appoint a director or directors within a reasonable period of time, the Commission shall have the power to make the appointment.</p><p>B. All board members, including the chairman, shall be appointed to serve for two-year terms beginning on a date designated by the plan.</p><p>C. Six directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business or exercise of any power of the Association. The directors of the Association shall act by vote of a majority of those present. The directors shall serve without salary, but each director shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his or her official duties as a director of the Association.</p><p>1988, cc. 769, 783; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0198'>198</a>.</p>