# § 38.2-1818 Individual moving from another state or Canadian province.

<p>A. An individual holding a nonresident Virginia agent license who has moved into this Commonwealth from another state or a province of Canada shall submit the application and pay the license processing fee required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1819/'>38.2-1819</a> and in accordance with the requirements set forth in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1836/'>38.2-1836</a>. Agents with active nonresident Virginia agent licenses may continue to operate under their nonresident licenses for up to ninety calendar days while applying for resident Virginia agent's licenses. Appointments made under such nonresident licenses shall remain in effect during the ninety-calendar-day period, unless terminated for other reasons. Appointments held by an agent under a nonresident Virginia agent license shall automatically be converted to resident agent appointments if the agent obtains an equivalent resident Virginia agent license during the ninety-calendar-day period. If an agent fails to obtain such resident license by the end of the ninety-calendar-day period, the equivalent nonresident license and all associated appointments under that license shall terminate at the end of the ninety-calendar-day period.</p><p>B. An individual licensed as an insurance producer in another state or province of Canada, but not holding a nonresident Virginia agent license, who moves to this Commonwealth shall submit the application to become a resident licensee and shall pay the license processing fee required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1819/'>38.2-1819</a> and in accordance with the requirements of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1836/'>38.2-1836</a> within ninety calendar days of establishing legal residence in this Commonwealth. No prelicensing examination shall be required of that individual to obtain any line of authority previously held in the prior state except where the Commission determines otherwise by regulation. After establishing legal residence in this Commonwealth and prior to obtaining a license as a resident agent, the individual shall be prohibited from selling, soliciting, or negotiating insurance in this Commonwealth. An individual who fails to submit the application and license processing fee within ninety calendar days of establishing legal residence in this Commonwealth shall be required to satisfy all resident agent prelicensing requirements in order to be issued a license.</p><p>1979, c. 513, § 38.1-327.19; 1980, c. 743; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 521; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0583'>583</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>.</p>