# § 10.1-1308 Regulations.

<p>A. The Board, after having studied air pollution in the various areas of the Commonwealth, its causes, prevention, control and abatement, shall have the power to promulgate regulations, including emergency regulations, abating, controlling and prohibiting air pollution throughout or in any part of the Commonwealth in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.), except that a description of provisions of any proposed regulation which are more restrictive than applicable federal requirements, together with the reason why the more restrictive provisions are needed, shall be provided to the standing committee of each house of the General Assembly to which matters relating to the content of the regulation are most properly referable. No such regulation shall prohibit the burning of leaves from trees by persons on property where they reside if the local governing body of the county, city or town has enacted an otherwise valid ordinance regulating such burning. The regulations shall not promote or encourage any substantial degradation of present air quality in any air basin or region which has an air quality superior to that stipulated in the regulations. Any regulations adopted by the Board to have general effect in part or all of the Commonwealth shall be filed in accordance with the Virginia Register Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4100/'>2.2-4100</a> et seq.).</p><p>B. Any regulation that prohibits the selling of any consumer product shall not restrict the continued sale of the product by retailers of any existing inventories in stock at the time the regulation is promulgated.</p><p>C. Any regulation requiring the use of stage 1 vapor recovery equipment at gasoline dispensing facilities may be applicable only in areas that have been designated at any time by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as nonattainment for the pollutant ozone. For purposes of this section, gasoline dispensing facility means any site where gasoline is dispensed to motor vehicle tanks from storage tanks.</p><p>D. No regulation of the Board shall require permits for the construction or operation of qualified fumigation facilities, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/10.1-1308.01/'>10.1-1308.01</a>.</p><p>E. Notwithstanding any other provision of law and no earlier than July 1, 2024, the Board shall adopt regulations to reduce, for the period of 2031 to 2050, the carbon dioxide emissions from any electricity generating unit in the Commonwealth, regardless of fuel type, that serves an electricity generator with a nameplate capacity equal to or greater than 25 megawatts that supplies (i) 10 percent or more of its annual net electrical generation to the electric grid or (ii) more than 15 percent of its annual total useful energy to any entity other than the manufacturing facility to which the generating source is interconnected (covered unit).</p><p>The Board may establish, implement, and manage an auction program to sell allowances to carry out the purposes of such regulations or may in its discretion utilize an existing multistate trading system.</p><p>The Board may utilize its existing regulations to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from electric power generating facilities; however, the regulations shall provide that no allowances be issued for covered units in 2050 or any year beyond 2050. The Board may establish rules for trading, the use of banked allowances, and other auction or market mechanisms as it may find appropriate to control allowance costs and otherwise carry out the purpose of this subsection.</p><p>In adopting such regulations, the Board shall consider only the carbon dioxide emissions from the covered units. The Board shall not provide for emission offsetting or netting based on fuel type.</p><p>Regulations adopted by the Board under this subsection shall be subject to the requirements set out in §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4007.03/'>2.2-4007.03</a>, <a href='/vacode/2.2-4007.04/'>2.2-4007.04</a>, <a href='/vacode/2.2-4007.05/'>2.2-4007.05</a>, and <a href='/vacode/2.2-4026/'>2.2-4026</a> through <a href='/vacode/2.2-4030/'>2.2-4030</a> of the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.) and shall be published in the Virginia Register of Regulations.</p><p>1966, c. 497, §§ 10-17.16, 10-17.18; 1968, c. 311; 1969, Ex. Sess., c. 8; 1970, c. 469; 1972, c. 781; 1973, c. 251; 1980, c. 469; 1984, c. 734; 1988, cc. 26, 891; 1993, c. 456; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0055'>55</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0066'>66</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0071'>71</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0393'>393</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1193'>1193</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1194'>1194</a>.</p>