# ยง 15.2-5942 Public hearings; notice; reports.

<p>A. At least 30 days before (i) acquiring or entering into a lease involving a Facility Site and (ii) entering into a construction contract for a Facility, the Authority shall submit to the General Assembly a detailed written report and findings of the Authority on the proposed acquisition, lease, or contract. The report and findings shall include a detailed plan of the method of funding and the economic benefits of the proposal.</p><p>B. The State Treasurer shall be provided with copies of (i) all documents relating to the proposed issuance of any bonds pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-5943/'>15.2-5943</a> and (ii) all documents relating to a proposed acquisition, lease, or contract described in subsection A. Such copies shall be provided sufficiently in advance of such bond issuance or acquisition, lease, or contract to conduct such reviews as the State Treasurer deems necessary. Such reviews shall be completed within 60 days after the date that the Treasurer is provided such documents. In the event that the Commonwealth is an obligated person determined to be material to an evaluation of the offering for which financial information will be included or referenced in the offering document in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 15c 2-12 under the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or in the event that in the opinion of the State Treasurer, with the concurrence of the Debt Capacity Advisory Committee established under Article 5 (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-2712/'>2.2-2712</a> et seq.) of Chapter 27 of Title 2.2, such bond issue or contractual obligation will be considered tax-supported debt of the Commonwealth or have an adverse impact on the debt capacity or the credit ratings of the Commonwealth, such bond issue or contractual obligation must be authorized by the General Assembly. Within 60 days of receiving the documents described in this subsection, the Treasurer shall deliver a written opinion to the Authority and participating localities regarding whether the bond issue or contractual obligation will be considered tax-supported debt of the Commonwealth or have an adverse impact on the debt capacity or the credit ratings of the Commonwealth.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0538'>538</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0539'>539</a>.</p>