# § 3.2-4118 Forfeiture of industrial hemp grower, dealer, or processor registration; violations.

<p>A. The Commissioner shall deny the application, or suspend or revoke the registration, of any person who, with a culpable mental state greater than negligence, violates any provision of this chapter. The Commissioner shall provide reasonable notice of an informal fact-finding conference pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-4019/'>2.2-4019</a> to any person in connection with the denial, suspension, or revocation of a registration.</p><p>B. If a registration is revoked as the result of an informal hearing, the decision may be appealed, and upon appeal an administrative hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.). The grower, dealer, or processor may appeal a final order to the circuit court in accordance with the Administrative Process Act.</p><p>C. A person issued a registration pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-4115/'>3.2-4115</a> who negligently (i) fails to provide a description and geographic data sufficient for locating his production field, dealership, or process site; (ii) grows, deals in, or processes Cannabis sativa with a tetrahydrocannabinol concentration greater than that allowed by federal law; or (iii) produces a Cannabis sativa product shall comply with any corrective action plan established by the Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of subsection E. The Commissioner shall not deem a grower negligent if such grower makes reasonable efforts to grow industrial hemp and grows Cannabis sativa with a tetrahydrocannabinol concentration that does not exceed the total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration percentage established in federal regulations applicable to negligent violations located at 7 C.F.R. 990.6(b)(3).</p><p>D. A person who grows, deals in, or processes industrial hemp and who negligently fails to register pursuant to subsection A of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-4115/'>3.2-4115</a> shall comply with any corrective action plan established by the Commissioner in accordance with the provisions of subsection E.</p><p>E. A corrective action plan established by the Commissioner in response to a negligent violation of a provision of this chapter shall identify a reasonable date by which the person who is the subject of the plan shall correct the negligent violation and shall require such person to report periodically for not less than two calendar years to the Commissioner on the person's compliance with the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>F. No person who negligently violates the provisions of this chapter three times in a five-year period shall be eligible to grow, deal in, or process industrial hemp for a period of five years beginning on the date of the third violation.</p><p>2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0158'>158</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0180'>180</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0689'>689</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0690'>690</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0653'>653</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0654'>654</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0110'>110</a>.</p>