# ยง 15.2-740 Authority to impose assessments for local improvements; purposes.

<p>The board may impose taxes or assessments upon owners of abutting property for making, improving, replacing, or enlarging the walkways upon then existing streets; for improving and paving then existing alleys; and for either the construction or the use of sanitary or storm water sewers including retaining walls, curbs, and gutters. However, such taxes or assessments shall not exceed the peculiar benefits resulting from the improvements to the owners of abutting property and no assessment for retaining walls shall be imposed upon any property owner who does not agree to such assessment.</p><p>In addition to the foregoing, the board may impose taxes or assessments upon owners of abutting property for the construction, replacement, or enlargement of sidewalks, waterlines, sanitary sewers, or storm water sewers; for the installation of street lights; for the construction or installation of canopies or other weather protective devices; for the installation of lighting in connection with the foregoing; and for permanent amenities, including, but not limited to, benches or waste receptacles, provided that such taxes or assessments shall not exceed the peculiar benefits resulting from the improvements to such owners of abutting property.</p><p>All assessments pursuant to this section shall be subject to the laws pertaining to assessments under Title 15.2, Chapter 24, Article 2 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2404/'>15.2-2404</a> et seq.), mutatis mutandis. All assessments pursuant to this section may also be made subject to installment payments and other provisions allowed for local assessments under this article.</p><p>As used in this section, "owners of abutting property" includes the owners of property that abuts a state highway when the improvement is funded solely by county revenues.</p><p>1990, c. 323, ยง 15.1-687.18; 1997, c. 587.</p>