# ยง 32.1-111.12 Virginia Rescue Squads Assistance Fund; disbursements.

<p>A. For the purpose of providing financial assistance to emergency medical services organizations in the Commonwealth, of providing the requisite training for emergency medical services personnel, and of purchasing equipment needed by such organizations, there is hereby created in the Department of the Treasury a special nonreverting fund that shall be known as the Virginia Rescue Squads Assistance Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller, and any moneys remaining in such Fund at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Interest earned on such moneys shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. The Fund shall consist of any moneys appropriated for this purpose by the General Assembly and any other moneys received for such purpose by the Board. On and after July 1, 1996, any such moneys unexpended at the end of a fiscal biennium shall remain in the Fund and shall not revert to the general fund.</p><p>B. In accordance with regulations of the Board, the Commissioner shall disburse and expend the moneys in the Virginia Rescue Squads Assistance Fund. No moneys shall be disbursed directly to any emergency medical services organization unless such organization operates on a nonprofit basis exclusively for the benefit of the general public.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0899'>899</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502'>502</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503'>503</a>.</p>