# ยง 3.2-4416 Beehive distribution program.

<p>Any individual registered with the Department as a beekeeper may apply to the Department for no more than three basic beehive units per year per household. The Department shall establish guidelines setting forth the components of a basic beehive unit and the general requirements for qualifying for such unit. The Department shall accept applications for beehive units during an application period of not less than 15 days. The Department shall select individuals receiving beehive units at random from the completed eligible applications received during the application period. In the event that funds are not available in the Beehive Grant Fund established pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/3.2-4415/'>3.2-4415</a> (the Fund), the Department shall notify individuals who submitted applications but were not selected to receive beehive units that the funds available for that fiscal year have been exhausted. The Department shall not be required to carry forward pending applications to the next fiscal year in which funds are available in the Fund.</p><p>The Department may use funds from the Fund to pay for the costs of purchasing, building, or distributing the beehive units and for the costs of administering the beehive distribution program. The Department may work cooperatively with the Virginia Cooperative Extension Service and Agricultural Experiment Station Division, established pursuant to Article 2 (ยง <a href='/vacode/23.1-2608/'>23.1-2608</a> et seq.) of Chapter 26 of Title 23.1, to carry out the provisions of this section.</p><p>2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0412'>412</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0473'>473</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0192'>192</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0407'>407</a>.</p>