# § 30-19.2 Inspection of certain state facilities by, or orientation for, members and future members of the General Assembly.

<p>(1) Inspections may be made of the grounds, buildings, and other physical facilities appurtenant to state agencies and state-supported institutions, at the times and by the persons hereinafter set forth.</p><p>(2) The Governor may arrange for such inspection in each year preceding the regular session of the General Assembly for the members of the forthcoming General Assembly. Such inspection trips shall be provided at state expense for each member of the General Assembly.</p><p>(3) Transportation, meals, lodging, and other necessary accommodations for the persons making the inspection for which this section provides shall be provided from funds appropriated to the General Assembly. Travel shall be arranged by motor bus or other convenient method of transportation from some central point from which trips to the several state agencies and institutions shall be made. The Governor shall notify the persons permitted to make such inspection of the place and time of origin from which such trip shall begin and when it is expected to end; and shall make such arrangements as will be convenient to the persons desiring to make such trip of inspection.</p><p>(4) The persons making such trip shall be allowed their reasonable expenses in going to and from their homes to the point of origin of the trips. Compensation shall be paid as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/'>30-19.12</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.15/'>30-19.15</a>.</p><p>(5) Nothing contained in this section is intended to restrict in any way the right of any member of the General Assembly to visit at his expense any state institution at any time.</p><p>(6) Orientation sessions on the organization, programs, operations, and procedures of the Executive Department of state government may be provided in lieu of inspections of state facilities. The Governor may arrange for such orientation in each year preceding the regular session of the General Assembly for members and members-elect of the forthcoming General Assembly.</p><p>1952, c. 102; 1960, c. 575; 1979, c. 466.</p>