# § 3.2-4902 Registration required.

<p>A. The manufacturer or person responsible for distributing an animal remedy in the Commonwealth shall obtain a registration from the Commissioner for the animal remedy before placing such remedy on the market, except for medicated feeds registered under subsection C of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4804/'>3.2-4804</a> of the Virginia Commercial Feed Law.</p><p>B. Any person may make application for registration of any animal remedy by filing with the Commissioner, on forms furnished or approved by him, a statement with respect to such animal remedy that includes:</p><p>1. The name and principal address of the manufacturer or person responsible for placing such animal remedy on the market and the name and address of the person to whom correspondence should be directed; and</p><p>2. The name, brand, or trademark under which the animal remedy will be sold.</p><p>C. A label for any animal remedy shall accompany each application for registration, and, when requested by the Commissioner, a representative and true sample or specimen of each animal remedy to be registered shall accompany such application.</p><p>D. A statement of claims made or to be made that differ from the label submitted shall be filed with the Commissioner prior to use.</p><p>E. If the Commissioner after examination and investigation, finds that the application and labeling comply with the provisions of this chapter, a certificate of registration shall be issued to the applicant on payment of a registration fee as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4904/'>3.2-4904</a>.</p><p>F. This section does not apply to an animal remedy intended solely for investigational, experimental, or laboratory use by qualified persons, provided such remedy is plainly labeled "for investigational use only."</p><p>G. The Commissioner may determine whether a preparation intended for animal use and subject to registration shall be registered as a commercial feed and as an animal remedy.</p><p>H. The manufacturer or person responsible for placing on the market an animal remedy that is offered for sale, sold or otherwise distributed in the Commonwealth before it has been properly registered shall be subject to a late registration fee of $50 payable to the Commissioner in addition to the registration fee. The registrant shall pay the late registration fee before the registration is issued.</p><p>Code 1950, § 3-646.5; 1956, c. 517; 1966, c. 702, § 3.1-834; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>