# ยง 51.1-124.23 Medical boards.

<p>A. The Board may create one or more medical boards composed of physicians or other health care professionals who are not eligible to participate in the Retirement System. Members of the medical boards created pursuant to this section shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. A medical board created pursuant to this section may appoint physicians or other health professionals to supplement the medical board membership as necessary to render medical decisions involving specific medical specialties or to serve as substitutes when members of such medical board cannot serve in their official capacity. Any such appointments made by the medical board shall be immediately communicated to the Board or its designee.</p><p>B. The duties of a medical board created pursuant to this section shall include:</p><p>1. Reviewing all reports of medical examinations required by this chapter.</p><p>2. Investigating all essential health and medical statements and certificates filed in connection with disability retirement.</p><p>3. Submitting to the Board a written report of its conclusions and recommendations on all matters referred to it.</p><p>C. A medical board created pursuant to this section, its substitutes, and its employees shall not be held personally liable for conclusions, advice, or recommendations made in accordance with the duties of such medical board under the provisions of this title.</p><p>D. The Board is authorized to delegate or assign to any person the authority to appoint medical board membership.</p><p>1952, c. 157, ยง 51-111.26; 1980, cc. 680, 728; 1984, c. 430; 1990, c. 832, ยง 51.1-112; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0004'>4</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0085'>85</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0078'>78</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0039'>39</a>.</p>