# § 13.1-921 Application for certificate of authority.

<p>A. A foreign corporation may apply to the Commission for a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth. The application shall be made on forms prescribed and furnished by the Commission. The application shall set forth:</p><p>1. The name of the foreign corporation, and if the corporation is prevented by § <a href='/vacode/13.1-924/'>13.1-924</a> from using its name in the Commonwealth, a designated name that satisfies the requirements of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/13.1-924/'>13.1-924</a>;</p><p>2. The foreign corporation's jurisdiction of formation, and if the foreign corporation was previously authorized or registered to transact business in the Commonwealth as a foreign corporation, limited liability company, business trust, limited partnership, or registered limited liability partnership, with respect to every such prior authorization or registration, (i) the name of the entity; (ii) the entity type; (iii) the state or other jurisdiction of incorporation, organization, or formation; and (iv) the entity identification number issued to it by the Commission;</p><p>3. The foreign corporation's original date of incorporation, organization, or formation as an entity and its period of duration;</p><p>4. The street address of the foreign corporation's principal office;</p><p>5. The address of the proposed registered office of the foreign corporation in the Commonwealth, including both (i) the post office address with street and number, if any, and (ii) the name of the county or city in which it is located, and the name of its proposed registered agent in the Commonwealth at such address and that the registered agent is either (a) an individual who is a resident of Virginia and either an officer or director of the corporation or a member of the Virginia State Bar or (b) a domestic or foreign stock or nonstock corporation, limited liability company, or registered limited liability partnership authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth, the business office of which is identical with the registered office; and</p><p>6. The names and usual business addresses of the current directors and principal officers of the foreign corporation.</p><p>B. The foreign corporation shall deliver with the completed application a copy of its articles of incorporation and all amendments and corrections thereto, duly authenticated by the Secretary of State or other official having custody of corporate records in its jurisdiction of formation.</p><p>C. A foreign corporation is not precluded from receiving a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth because of any difference between the law of the foreign corporation's jurisdiction of formation and the law of the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. If the Commission finds that the application complies with the requirements of law and that all required fees have been paid, it shall issue a certificate of authority to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 13.1-269, 13.1-270; 1956, c. 428; 1958, c. 564; 1975, c. 500; 1985, c. 522; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0348'>348</a>; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0517'>517</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0541'>541</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0607'>607</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0274'>274</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0623'>623</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>