# § 15.2-1213.1 Referendum in Page County on election of the county chairman from the county at large.

<p>A. On or before August 15, 2004, the circuit court for Page County shall order a referendum to be held on the question of whether the qualified voters of the County shall elect a chairman of the board of supervisors from the county at large to serve as chairman and as an additional member of the board. The referendum shall be held at the time of the 2004 November general election. The question to be placed on the ballot shall be as follows:</p><p>"Shall the chairman of the county board of supervisors, to be known as the county chairman, be elected by the voters of the county at large?</p><p>_Yes</p><p>_No"</p><p>The election shall be held and the results certified as provided in §§ <a href='/vacode/24.2-682/'>24.2-682</a> and <a href='/vacode/24.2-684/'>24.2-684</a></p><p>B. Following certification of the election results by the electoral board, the court shall enter an order proclaiming the results of such election and a duly certified copy of such order shall be transmitted to the board of supervisors of the County and the State Board of Elections. If a majority of the voters voting in the referendum vote in favor of the election of a chairman at large, the first election for a chairman shall be held at the November 2005 general election, and the candidate elected shall serve for a term of four years.</p><p>C. The county chairman shall be the chairman of the county board of supervisors and preside at the meetings thereof. The chairman shall represent the County at official functions and ceremonial events. The chairman shall have all voting and other rights, privileges, and duties of other members of the board and additional rights, privileges, and duties not in conflict with general law as the board may prescribe. At the first meeting at the beginning of its term and any time thereafter when necessary, the board of supervisors shall elect a vice chairman from its membership, who shall perform the duties of the chairman in his absence.</p><p>2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0018'>18</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0890'>890</a>.</p>