# ยง 33.2-1813 Material default; remedies.

<p>A. Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of material default, the responsible public entity may exercise any or all of the following remedies:</p><p>1. The responsible public entity may elect to take over the transportation facility or facilities and in such case shall succeed to all of the right, title, and interest in such transportation facility or facilities, subject to any liens on revenues previously granted by the private entity to any person providing financing therefor.</p><p>2. The responsible public entity may terminate the interim or comprehensive agreement and exercise any other rights and remedies that may be available at law or in equity.</p><p>3. The responsible public entity may make or cause to be made any appropriate claims under the performance and/or payment bonds required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-1808/'>33.2-1808</a>.</p><p>B. In the event the responsible public entity elects to take over a qualifying transportation facility pursuant to subsection A, the responsible public entity may develop and/or operate the qualifying transportation facility, impose user fees for the use thereof, and comply with any service contracts as if it were the private entity. Any revenues that are subject to a lien shall be collected for the benefit of, and paid to, secured parties, as their interests may appear, to the extent necessary to satisfy the private entity's obligations to secured parties, including the maintenance of reserves, and such liens shall be correspondingly reduced and, when paid off, released. Before any payments to, or for the benefit of, secured parties, the responsible public entity may use revenues to pay current operation and maintenance costs of the qualifying transportation facility or facilities, including compensation to the responsible public entity for its services in operating and maintaining the qualifying transportation facility. Remaining revenues, if any, after all payments for operation and maintenance of the transportation facility or facilities, and to, or for the benefit of, secured parties, have been made, shall be paid to the private entity, subject to the negotiated maximum rate of return. The right to receive such payment, if any, shall be considered just compensation for the transportation facility or facilities. The full faith and credit of the responsible public entity shall not be pledged to secure any financing of the private entity by the election to take over the qualifying transportation facility. Assumption of operation of the qualifying transportation facility shall not obligate the responsible public entity to pay any obligation of the private entity from sources other than revenues.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0855'>855</a>, ยง 56-568; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0647'>647</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0504'>504</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0562'>562</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>