# ยง 3.2-3002 Wine Board membership terms; vacancies.

<p>Initial appointments of nonlegislative citizen members to the Wine Board shall be staggered as follows: six nonlegislative citizen members shall be owners or operators of wineries or farm wineries in Virginia, two of whom shall serve for terms of three years, two shall serve for terms of two years, and two shall serve a term of one year; and three nonlegislative citizen members shall be grape growers with no controlling financial interest in a winery or farm winery, one of whom shall serve a term of three years, one shall serve a term of two years, and one shall serve a term of one year. Thereafter, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. The Commissioner shall serve a term coincident with his term of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. All members may be reappointed. No nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0089'>89</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0319'>319</a>, ยง 3.1-1064.3; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>