# § 3.2-4022 Membership; terms; quorum; meetings.

<p>The Certified Seed Board shall have a total membership of seven consisting of two nonlegislative citizen members and five ex officio members. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed as follows: one member of the Virginia Seedsmen's Association and one member of the Virginia Crop Improvement Association shall be appointed by the Governor subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Such appointments may be made from lists of three names nominated by each such Association and submitted at least 90 days before the expiration of the member's term for which the nominations are being provided. If said organizations fail to provide the nominations at least 90 days before the expiration date pursuant to this section, the Governor may appoint other nominees that meet the criteria provided by this section. The Commissioner, the Director of the Agricultural Experiment Station at Blacksburg, the Director of the Virginia Cooperative Extension, the Head of the Crop and Soil Environmental Sciences Department of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, and the Dean for the School of Agriculture at Virginia State University or their designees shall serve ex officio with voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Certified Seed Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>Nonlegislative citizen members of the Certified Seed Board shall serve for terms of three years. Ex officio members of the Certified Seed Board shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed.</p><p>The Certified Seed Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Certified Seed Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>The Board shall maintain an office in Blacksburg from which place its duties shall be performed.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 3-220, 3-223; 1958, c. 30; 1966, c. 702, §§ 3.1-276, 3.1-279; 1980, c. 413; 1985, c. 448; 1992, c. 121; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>.</p>