# § 55.1-2241 Receipt of application; effectiveness of registration.

<p>A. Upon receipt of the application for registration in proper form, the Board, within five business days, shall issue a notice of filing to the applicant. Within 20 days after receipt of the application, the Board shall review the application to determine whether the application and supporting documents satisfy the requirements of this chapter and the Board's regulations. Within 60 days from the date of the notice of filing, the Board shall enter an order registering or rejecting the application. If no order of rejection is entered within 60 days from the date of the notice of filing, the time-share program shall be deemed registered unless the applicant has consented in writing to a delay.</p><p>B. If the Board determines after review of the application and documents provided by the applicant that the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-2239/'>55.1-2239</a> have been met, it shall issue an order registering the time-share program and shall designate the form of the public offering statement.</p><p>C. If the Board determines that any of the requirements of § <a href='/vacode/55.1-2239/'>55.1-2239</a> have not been met, the Board shall notify the applicant that the application for registration shall be corrected in the particulars specified within 20 days. If the requirements are not met within the time allowed, the Board shall enter an order rejecting the registration, which shall include the findings of fact upon which the order is based. The order rejecting the registration shall become effective 20 days after issuance. During this 20-day period, the applicant may petition for reconsideration and shall be entitled to a hearing or to correct the particulars specified in the Board's notice. Such order of rejection shall not take effect, in any event, until such time as the hearing, if requested, is given to the applicant.</p><p>Code 1950, § 55-393; 1981, c. 462; 1985, c. 517, § 55-393.1; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1011'>1011</a>.</p>