# ยง 46.2-2100 Definitions.

<p>Whenever used in this chapter, unless expressly stated otherwise:</p><p>"Authorized insurer" means, in the case of an interstate motor carrier whose operations may or may not include intrastate activity, an insurer authorized to transact business in any one state, or, in the case of a solely intrastate motor carrier, an insurer authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Certificate of fitness" means a certificate issued by the Department to certain "household goods carriers" under this chapter.</p><p>"Constructive weight" means a measurement of seven pounds per cubic foot of properly loaded van space.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Motor Vehicles.</p><p>"Financial responsibility" means the ability to respond in damages for liability thereafter incurred arising out of the ownership, maintenance, use, or operation of a motor vehicle, in the amounts provided for in this chapter.</p><p>"Gross weight" means the weight of a truck after a shipment has been loaded.</p><p>"Highway" means every public highway or place of whatever nature open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicle travel in this Commonwealth, excluding the streets and alleys in towns and cities.</p><p>"Household goods" means personal effects and property used or to be used in a dwelling, when transported or arranged to be transported (i) between residences or (ii) between a residence and a storage facility with the intent to later transport to a residence. Transportation of such goods must be arranged and paid for by, or on behalf of, the householder.</p><p>"Household goods carrier" means a carrier who undertakes, whether directly or by a lease or other arrangement, to transport "household goods," as herein defined, by motor vehicle for compensation, on any highway in this Commonwealth, between two or more points in this Commonwealth, whether over regular or irregular routes.</p><p>"Interstate" means the transportation of property between states.</p><p>"Intrastate" means the transportation of property solely within a state.</p><p>"Motor carrier" means any person who undertakes whether directly or by a lease, to transport property, including household goods, as defined by this chapter, for compensation over the highways of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Motor vehicle" means any vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used upon the highways in the transportation of property, but does not include any vehicle, locomotive or car operated exclusively on a rail or rails.</p><p>"Net weight" means the tare weight subtracted from the gross weight.</p><p>"Permit" means a permit issued by the Department authorizing the transportation of property, excluding household goods transported for a distance greater than 30 road miles.</p><p>"Person" means any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association or joint-stock association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof.</p><p>"Property carrier" means any person, not herein exempted, who undertakes either directly or by a lease, to transport property for compensation.</p><p>"Services" and "transportation" includes the services of, and all transportation by, all vehicles operated by, for, or in the interest of any motor carrier, irrespective of ownership or contract, express or implied, together with all facilities and property operated or controlled by any such carrier or carriers and used in the transportation of property or in the performance of any service in connection therewith.</p><p>"Tare weight" means the weight of a truck before being loaded at a shipper's residence or place of business, including the pads, dollies, hand-trucks, ramps and other equipment normally used in the transportation of household goods shipments.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 56-338.1; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0744'>744</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0803'>803</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0283'>283</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596'>596</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0832'>832</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0874'>874</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0891'>891</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0889'>889</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0790'>790</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0815'>815</a>.</p>