# ยง 6.2-2601 License requirement; exceptions.

<p>A. No person shall act as a qualified education loan servicer, directly or indirectly, whether or not the person has an office or any other physical presence in the Commonwealth, except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and without having first obtained a license under this chapter from the Commission.</p><p>B. Every qualified education loan servicer required to be licensed under this chapter shall register with the Registry and be subject to such registration and renewal requirements as may be established by the Registry, in addition to any requirements of this chapter. In adopting regulations pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/6.2-2622/'>6.2-2622</a>, the Commission shall include any terms, conditions, or requirements applicable to such registration and renewal. Any fees required by the Registry shall be separate and apart from any fees imposed by this chapter. The Commission, at its discretion, may collect any registration and renewal fees on behalf of the Registry and remit such fees to the Registry or permit the Registry to collect any fees imposed by this chapter and remit such fees to the Commission.</p><p>C. In connection with its implementation and administration of this chapter, the Commission may establish agreements or contracts with the Registry or other entities designated by the Registry to collect, distribute, and maintain information and records, and process fees, related to qualified education loan servicers required to be licensed under this chapter. In establishing such agreements or contracts, the Commission shall not be subject to the Virginia Public Procurement Act (ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-4300/'>2.2-4300</a> et seq.).</p><p>D. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:</p><p>1. Any bank, savings institution, credit union, or financial institution subject to regulation under 12 U.S.C. ยง 2002;</p><p>2. Any wholly owned subsidiary of any bank, savings institution, or credit union, provided that such wholly owned subsidiary is subject to the general supervision or regulation of, or subject to audit or examination by, a regulatory body or agency of the United States or any state; or</p><p>3. Any public or private nonprofit institution of higher education.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1198'>1198</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1250'>1250</a>.</p>