# ยง 8.01-515 How garnishee examined; determining exemption from employee's withholding certificate; amount due pursuant to exemptions in ยง 34-29 (a).

<p>A person so summoned shall appear in person and be examined on oath or he may file a statement. A corporation so summoned shall appear by an authorized agent who shall be examined on oath or may file a statement, not under seal of such authorized agent. Such statement shall show the amount the garnishee is indebted to the judgment debtor, if any, or what property or effects, if any, the garnishee has or holds which belongs to the judgment debtor, or in which he has an interest. Payment to the court of any amount by the garnishee shall have the same force and effect as a statement which contains the information required by this section. If the judgment debtor or judgment creditor disputes the verity or accuracy of such statement or amount and so desires, then summons shall issue requiring the appearance of such person or authorized agent for examination on oath, and requiring him to produce such books and papers as may be necessary to determine the fact.</p><p>In determining the exemption to which the employee is entitled, the employer may until otherwise ordered by the court rely upon the information contained in the employee's withholding exemption certificate filed by the employee for federal income tax purposes, and any person showing more than one exemption thereon shall be considered by him to be a householder or head of a family.</p><p>The employer may apply the exemptions provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/34-29/'>34-29</a> (a) unless otherwise specified on the summons, or unless otherwise ordered by the court.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 8-443; 1954, c. 379; 1977, c. 617; 1979, c. 242; 1983, c. 399.</p>