# § 3.2-4912 Prohibitions.

<p>A. It is unlawful for any person to:</p><p>1. Sell, deliver, hold, or offer for sale any animal remedy that has not been registered with the Commissioner as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4902/'>3.2-4902</a>, except that any biological product for use on or testing of any livestock, poultry, or any animal, manufactured under a license issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, shall not be considered as being subject to the registration requirements of such section.</p><p>2. Manufacture, sell, deliver, hold, or offer for sale any animal remedy that is adulterated or misbranded.</p><p>3. Compound, manufacture, make, produce, pack, package, or prepare within the Commonwealth any animal remedy to be offered for sale or distribution unless such compounding, manufacture, making, producing, packaging, packing, or preparing is done with adequate equipment under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian, a graduate chemist, a licensed pharmacist, a licensed physician, or some other person as may be approved by the Commissioner after an investigation and a determination by the Commissioner that they are qualified by scientific or technical training or by experience to perform such duties of supervision as may be necessary to protect animal health and public safety.</p><p>4. Disseminate any advertisement that is false or misleading. No person or medium for the dissemination of any advertisement, except the manufacturer, packer, distributor, or seller of the article to which a false advertisement relates, is subject to the penalties for violations of this chapter for disseminating such false advertisement, unless he refused, on the request of the Commissioner, to furnish the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor, seller, or advertising agency that caused him to disseminate such advertisement.</p><p>5. Dispose of a detained article in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4908/'>3.2-4908</a>.</p><p>6. Give a guaranty that is false, except a person who relied on the guaranty signed by, and containing the name and address of, the person from whom he received the animal remedy in good faith.</p><p>7. Alter, mutilate, destroy, obliterate, or remove any part of the labeling of any animal remedy if such acts result in the animal remedy being misbranded, or do any other act, while the animal remedy is being held for sale that results in the misbranding of such article.</p><p>8. Forge, counterfeit, simulate, or falsely represent, or without proper authority use, any mark, stamp, tag, label, or other identification device required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4907/'>3.2-4907</a>.</p><p>9. Sell or offer to sell any biological product for use on any livestock, poultry, or other animal, unless such product is manufactured under a license issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture or a registration issued by the Commissioner, or unless such product meets the requirements of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.</p><p>10. Sell or offer to sell any biological product that has not been kept in refrigeration under conditions prescribed by the regulations of the Board.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall assess any person who commits a prohibited act under this chapter 10 percent of the retail price of the animal remedy at the time of sampling on the product found in violation, or $50, whichever is greater, not to exceed $5,000 per occurrence. The person assessed shall pay the assessment to the Commissioner within 60 days from the date of notice to the person whose name appears on the label. Any person who fails to pay the assessment within the specified time shall pay a late fee of $50 to the Commissioner in addition to the assessment. The Commissioner shall revoke the registration of any person who fails to pay the assessment.</p><p>Code 1950, § 3-646.8; 1956, c. 517; 1966, c. 702, § 3.1-837; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0910'>910</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>