# ยง 37.2-511 Liability for expenses of services.

<p>The income and estate of an individual receiving services shall be liable for the expenses of services under the jurisdiction or supervision of any community services board that are utilized by the individual. Any person responsible for holding, managing, or controlling the income and estate of the individual shall apply the income and estate toward the expenses of the services utilized by the individual.</p><p>Any person responsible for the support of an individual receiving services pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-61/'>20-61</a> or a common law duty to support shall be liable for the expenses of services under the jurisdiction or supervision of any community services board that are utilized by the individual, unless the individual, regardless of age, qualifies for and is receiving aid under a federal or state program of assistance to the blind or disabled. Any such person shall no longer be financially liable, however, when a cumulative total of 1,826 days of (i) care and treatment or training for the individual in a state facility, (ii) utilization by the individual of services under the jurisdiction or supervision of any community services board, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii) has passed and payment for or a written agreement to pay the charges for 1,826 days of care and services has been made. Not less than three hours of service per day shall be required to include one day in the cumulative total of 1,826 days of utilization of services under the jurisdiction or supervision of any community services board. In order to claim this exemption, the person legally liable for the individual shall produce evidence sufficient to prove eligibility for it.</p><p>1982, c. 50, ยง 37.1-202.1; 1984, c. 431; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0680'>680</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476'>476</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507'>507</a>.</p>