# § 38.2-1836 Licensing nonresidents; reciprocal agreements with other states and Canadian provinces.

<p>A. An individual or business entity who is not a resident as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1800/'>38.2-1800</a>, but who is a resident of another state or territory of the United States or a province of Canada shall receive a nonresident agent license if:</p><p>1. The applicant presents proof in a form acceptable to the Commission that the applicant is currently licensed as a resident and in good standing in his home state;</p><p>2. The applicant has submitted the proper request for licensure and has paid the fees required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1819/'>38.2-1819</a>;</p><p>3. The applicant has submitted or transmitted to the Commission the application for licensure that the person submitted to his home state, or in lieu of the same, a completed Uniform Application; and</p><p>4. The person's home state issues nonresident agent licenses to residents of this Commonwealth on the same basis.</p><p>B. For the purposes of this chapter, any individual whose place of residence and place of business are in a city or town located partly within the Commonwealth and partly within another state may be considered as meeting the requirements as a resident of this Commonwealth, provided the other state has established by law or regulation similar requirements as to residence of such individuals.</p><p>C. The Commission may enter into a reciprocal agreement with an appropriate official of any other state, territory or province of Canada if such an agreement is required in order for a Virginia resident to be similarly licensed as a nonresident in that state, territory or province. No applicant for a nonresident agent license shall be permitted to obtain such a license unless such agent's home state will grant a similar license to a resident of this Commonwealth.</p><p>D. The Commission may verify the agent's licensing status through the Producer Database maintained by the NAIC, its affiliates or subsidiaries.</p><p>E. A nonresident agent who moves from one state or province to another state shall file a change of address and provide a certification from the new home state within thirty calendar days of the change of legal residence. No fee or license application is required.</p><p>F. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a person licensed as a limited lines credit insurance or other type of limited lines agent in his home state shall receive a nonresident limited lines agent license, pursuant to subsection A of this section, granting the same scope of authority as is granted under the license issued by the agent's home state. A person holding an unrestricted license from his home state in which the authority of the license is less than the total authority prescribed in the associated major lines pursuant §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1814/'>38.2-1814</a> through <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1815.1/'>38.2-1815.1</a> shall be issued a restricted nonresident license providing authority equivalent to that held by the agent in his home state.</p><p>G. Any licenses and appointments issued to nonresidents pursuant to this section shall be terminated at any time that the nonresident's equivalent authority in his home state is terminated, suspended, or revoked.</p><p>Code 1950, § 38.1-301.9; 1956, c. 541; 1979, c. 513, § 38.1-327.45; 1980, c. 743; 1981, c. 604; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 521; 1988, c. 335; 1989, c. 435; 1990, c. 464; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0213'>213</a>.</p>