# ยง 54.1-2522 Reporting exemptions.

<p>The dispensing of covered substances under the following circumstances shall be exempt from the reporting requirements set forth in ยง <a href='/vacode/54.1-2521/'>54.1-2521</a>:</p><p>1. Dispensing of manufacturers' samples of such covered substances or of covered substances dispensed pursuant to an indigent patient program offered by a pharmaceutical manufacturer.</p><p>2. Dispensing of covered substances by a practitioner of the healing arts to his patient in a bona fide medical emergency or when pharmaceutical services are not available.</p><p>3. Administering of covered substances.</p><p>4. Dispensing of covered substances within an appropriately licensed narcotic maintenance treatment program.</p><p>5. Dispensing of covered substances to inpatients in hospitals or nursing facilities licensed by the Board of Health or facilities that are otherwise authorized by law to operate as hospitals or nursing homes in the Commonwealth.</p><p>6. Dispensing of covered substances to inpatients in hospices licensed by the Board of Health.</p><p>7. Dispensing of covered substances by veterinarians to animals within the usual course of their professional practice for a course of treatment to last seven days or less or if such covered substance is feline buprenorphine or canine butorphanol.</p><p>8. Dispensing of covered substances as otherwise provided in the Department's regulations.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0481'>481</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0772'>772</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0686'>686</a>.</p>