# ยง 22.1-212.31 Board regulations; application; expectations.

<p>The Board shall establish in regulations promulgated pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-212.29/'>22.1-212.29</a> expectations for the plan of innovation of an SDI applicant, including:</p><p>1. Establishing goals and performance targets that may include:</p><p>a. Reducing achievement and opportunity gaps among groups of public school students by expanding the range of engaging and relevant learning experiences for students who are identified as academically low-achieving;</p><p>b. Increasing student learning through the implementation of high, rigorous standards for student performance and balanced assessments that measure both student growth and achievement;</p><p>c. Creating opportunities for students to demonstrate mastery of learning at different points in the learning process based on readiness;</p><p>d. Increasing student participation in opportunities that enhance students' preparation for college, career, and citizenship;</p><p>e. Increasing the number of students who are college, career, and citizenship ready;</p><p>f. Increasing opportunities for students to learn from content experts through integrated course opportunities; and</p><p>g. Motivating students at all levels by offering additional curricular choices, personalized learning opportunities, and relevant student learning experiences such as community service projects, internship opportunities, and job shadowing.</p><p>2. Identifying divisionwide and school-level policies that will lead students to be better prepared for success in work and life.</p><p>3. Describing the ways in which all schools will incorporate innovative practices.</p><p>4. Incorporating relevant professional development.</p><p>5. Providing evidence of collaboration, support, and shared leadership among teachers in the school division.</p><p>6. Providing evidence of the support and engagement of educators, parents, the local community, and the local business community in the development of the plan of innovation and of the capacity of such individuals and entities to support the implementation of innovation.</p><p>7. Providing the rationale for requests for waivers from regulatory and statutory provisions.</p><p>8. Identifying specific measures of student success that may include alternate assessments or approved substitute tests that will be used to determine if students have met graduation requirements, as applicable.</p><p>2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0760'>760</a>.</p>