# ยง 51.5-72.1 The State Advisory Board for the Virginia Industries for the Blind.

<p>A. The State Advisory Board for the Virginia Industries for the Blind (the Board) is established as an advisory board in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Board is to provide advice for creating opportunities in career development and employment-related services to blind and visually impaired individuals.</p><p>B. The Board shall consist of 12 nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Board for the Blind and Vision Impaired as follows: (i) three persons who shall be blind persons or parents of blind persons; (ii) three representatives of human service agencies; and (iii) six persons who represent local business and manufacturing entities and other employees. Members shall be appointed for a term of three years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. All members may be reappointed. However, no member shall serve more than two consecutive three-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.</p><p>C. The Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the voting members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.</p><p>D. Members shall not receive compensation for their service or travel expenses.</p><p>E. The Board shall have the following powers and duties:</p><p>1. Advise managers of the manufacturing plants on business trends, product development, contract opportunities, and other business matters;</p><p>2. Review and comment on fiscal and budgetary matters concerning the operations of the manufacturing and service industries; and</p><p>3. Perform such other advisory acts that are in accord with the purposes of this section.</p><p>F. The Department for the Blind and Vision Impaired shall provide staff support to the Board. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall provide assistance to the Board, upon request.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0013'>13</a>.</p>