# ยง 2.2-3014 Fraud and Abuse Whistle Blower Reward Fund.

<p>A. From such funds as may be authorized by the General Assembly, there is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Fraud and Abuse Whistle Blower Reward Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller and shall be administered by the State Inspector General. All moneys recovered by the State Inspector General as the result of whistle blower activity and alerts originating with the Office of the State Inspector General shall be deposited in the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Except as provided in subsection B, any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely to (i) provide monetary rewards to persons who have disclosed information of wrongdoing or abuse under this chapter and the disclosure results in a recovery of at least $5,000 or (ii) support the administration of the Fund, defray Fund advertising costs, or subsidize the operation of the Fraud, Waste and Abuse Hotline (previously known as the State Employee Fraud, Waste and Abuse Hotline).</p><p>B. By the end of each calendar quarter and upon authorization of the State Inspector General, 85 percent of all sums recovered shall be remitted to the institutions or governmental agencies on whose behalf the recovery was secured by the State Inspector General unless otherwise directed by a court of law. Each such institution or governmental agency on whose behalf the recovery was secured by the State Inspector General shall receive an amount equal to 85 percent of the actual amount recovered by the State Inspector General on its behalf.</p><p>C. The amount of the reward shall be up to 10 percent of the actual sums recovered by the Commonwealth as a result of the disclosure of the wrongdoing or abuse. Regardless of the sums recovered, at no time shall the amount of any reward, even if less than 10 percent, exceed the balance of the Fund. Reward disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the State Inspector General. In the event that multiple whistle blowers contemporaneously report the same qualifying incident or occurrence of wrongdoing or abuse, the State Inspector General in his sole discretion may split the reward of up to 10 percent among the multiple whistle blowers. The decision of the State Inspector General regarding the allocation of the rewards shall be final and binding on all parties and shall not be appealable.</p><p>D. Five percent of all sums recovered shall be retained in the Fund to support the administration of the Fund, defray advertising costs, and subsidize the operation of the Fraud, Waste and Abuse Hotline. Expenditures for administrative costs for management of the Fund shall be managed as approved by the State Inspector General.</p><p>E. The Office of the State Inspector General shall promulgate regulations for the proper administration of the Fund including eligibility requirements and procedures for filing a claim. The Office of the State Inspector General shall submit an annual report to the General Assembly summarizing the activities of the Fund.</p><p>2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0340'>340</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0798'>798</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0572'>572</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0690'>690</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0403'>403</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0292'>292</a>.</p>