# § 54.1-2354.2 Common Interest Community Management Information Fund.

<p>A. There is hereby created the Common Interest Community Management Information Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund," to be used in the discretion of the Board to promote the improvement and more efficient operation of common interest communities through research and education. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. The Fund shall consist of money paid into it pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/54.1-2349/'>54.1-2349</a>, <a href='/vacode/55.1-1835/'>55.1-1835</a>, <a href='/vacode/55.1-1980/'>55.1-1980</a>, and <a href='/vacode/55.1-2182/'>55.1-2182</a>, and such money shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but, at the discretion of the Board, shall remain in the Fund or shall be transferred to the Common Interest Community Management Recovery Fund established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-2354.5/'>54.1-2354.5</a>.</p><p>B. Expenses for the operations of the Office of the Common Interest Community Ombudsman, including the compensation paid to the Common Interest Community Ombudsman, shall be paid first from interest earned on deposits constituting the Fund and the balance from the moneys collected annually in the Fund. The Board may use the remainder of the interest earned on the balance of the Fund and of the moneys collected annually and deposited in the Fund for financing or promoting the following:</p><p>1. Information and research in the field of common interest community management and operation;</p><p>2. Expeditious and inexpensive procedures for resolving complaints about an association from members of the association or other citizens;</p><p>3. Seminars and educational programs designed to address topics of concern to community associations; and</p><p>4. Other programs deemed necessary and proper to accomplish the purpose of this article.</p><p>C. Following the close of any biennium, when the Common Interest Community Management Information Fund shows expenses allocated to it for the past biennium to be more than 10 percent greater or less than moneys collected on behalf of the Board, the Board shall revise the fees levied by it for placement into the Fund so that the fees are sufficient but not excessive to cover expenses. A fee established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/55.1-1835/'>55.1-1835</a>, <a href='/vacode/55.1-1980/'>55.1-1980</a>, or <a href='/vacode/55.1-2182/'>55.1-2182</a> shall not exceed $25 unless such fee is based on the number of units or lots in the association.</p><p>1993, c. 958, § 55-529; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851'>851</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871'>871</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0391'>391</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>.</p>