# ยง 20-88.83 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article:</p><p>"Application" means a request under the Hague Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and Other Forms of Family Maintenance by an obligee or obligor, or on behalf of a child, made through a central authority for assistance from another central authority.</p><p>"Central authority" means the entity designated by the United States or a foreign country described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-88.32/'>20-88.32</a> to perform the functions specified in the Convention.</p><p>"Convention support order" means a support order of a tribunal of a foreign country described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-88.32/'>20-88.32</a>.</p><p>"Direct request" means a petition or similar pleading filed by an individual in a tribunal of the Commonwealth in a proceeding involving an obligee, obligor, or child residing outside the United States.</p><p>"Foreign central authority" means the entity designated by a foreign country described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-88.32/'>20-88.32</a> to perform the functions specified in the Convention.</p><p>"Foreign support agreement" means an agreement for support in a record that (i) is enforceable as a support order in the country of origin; (ii) has been formally drawn up or registered as an authentic instrument by a foreign tribunal or authenticated by or concluded, registered, or filed with a foreign tribunal; and (iii) may be reviewed and modified by a foreign tribunal. "Foreign support agreement" includes a maintenance arrangement or authentic instrument under the Convention.</p><p>"United States central authority" means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.</p><p>2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0727'>727</a>.</p>