# § 33.2-2202 Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel Commission.

<p>The Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel Commission is hereby created as the governing board of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel District created by this chapter. The Commission shall consist of the following 11 members: one member of the Commonwealth Transportation Board, two members from Accomack County, two members from Northampton County, one member from the City of Chesapeake, one member from the City of Hampton, one member from the City of Newport News, one member from the City of Norfolk, one member from the City of Portsmouth, and one member from the City of Virginia Beach. The members of the Commission appointed under the provisions of this section shall be residents of the counties or cities from which they are appointed.</p><p>Commission members shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by both houses of the General Assembly. Commission members shall be appointed to four-year terms. Any member of the Commission shall be eligible for reappointment to a second four-year term, but shall be ineligible for appointment to any additional term except for appointment to fill vacancies for portions of unexpired terms. When a vacancy occurs, the Governor shall appoint a new member to complete the unexpired portion of the term, subject to confirmation by both houses of the General Assembly.</p><p>The Commission shall select a chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, and treasurer annually from its membership and as provided in its bylaws. Meetings of the Commission shall be held upon the call of the chairman or as otherwise provided in the bylaws of the Commission. Any member of the Commission may be removed from office for cause by the Governor. Each member of the Commission, immediately following his appointment, shall take an oath of office, prescribed by Article II, Section 7 of the Constitution of Virginia, before any judge, clerk, or deputy clerk of any court of record; any judge of a district court in the Commonwealth; the Secretary of the Commonwealth or his deputy; or a member of the State Corporation Commission. No member of the Commission shall receive any salary, but members are entitled to expenses and per diem pay as provided in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/'>2.2-2813</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/'>2.2-2825</a>. Six members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. The records of the Commission shall be public records. The Commission is authorized to do all things necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties and the execution of its powers under this chapter. The route for any bridge or tunnel, or combination thereof, built by the Commission shall be selected subject to the approval of the Commonwealth Transportation Board.</p><p>1954, c. 693; 1956, c. 462; 1962, c. 405; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0548'>548</a>; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0238'>238</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0705'>705</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>