# § 3.2-3800 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Dealer" means any person that acquires nursery stock for the purpose of resale and distribution who is not a grower of nursery stock.</p><p>"Inspection certificate" means a document in any form issued by the Commissioner, or the appropriate official from another state, declaring an item or location to be apparently free from plant pests. Inspection certificates include nursery stock certificates, phytosanitary stock certificates, state-of-origin certificates, or any other certification tags, seals, and stamps that verify compliance with this chapter or any regulations adopted hereunder.</p><p>"Nursery" means any premises where nursery stock is propagated, grown, fumigated, treated, packed, stored, or otherwise prepared for sale or distribution.</p><p>"Nursery stock" means all trees, shrubs, woody vines (including ornamentals), bush fruits, grapevines, fruit trees, and nut trees offered for sale and distribution; all buds, grafts, scions, and cuttings from such plants; and any container, soil, and other packing material with such plants or plant products. It shall also mean herbaceous plants (including strawberry plants, narcissus plants, and narcissus bulbs) if the Board determines that controlling the movement of such plants or bulbs is necessary to control any plant pest. Unless designated by the Board, nursery stock shall not include florist or greenhouse plants for inside culture or use.</p><p>"Nurseryman" means any person that produces nursery stock for sale or distribution.</p><p>"Person" means the term as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/1-230/'>1-230</a>. The term also means any society.</p><p>"Plant pest" means any living stage of insects, mites, nematodes, slugs, snails, protozoa, other invertebrate animals, bacteria, fungi, other parasitic plants, parasitic plant parts, viruses, any other similar organism, or any infectious substances that can injure, infect, or damage any plants or plant products.</p><p>"Plants or plant products" means any trees, shrubs, vines, forage, fiber, cereal, and all other plants; cuttings, grafts, scions, buds, and all other plant parts; fruit, vegetables, roots, bulbs, seeds, wood, lumber, and all other plant products; or any container, soil, and packing material with plants or plant products.</p><p>Code 1950, § 3-178.1; 1964, c. 476; 1966, c. 702, § 3.1-135; 1980, c. 291, § 3.1-188.32; 1988, c. 552; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>