# ยง 58.1-470 Withholding exemption certificates.

<p>A. An employee receiving wages shall be entitled to the exemptions for which such employee qualifies under the laws of the United States relating to federal income taxes.</p><p>B. Every employee shall at the time of commencing employment furnish his employer with a signed withholding exemption certificate relating to the withholding exemptions which he claims, which in no event shall exceed the sum of exemptions to which he is entitled.</p><p>C. Withholding exemption certificates shall take effect as of the beginning of the first payroll period ending, or the first payment of wages made without regard to a payroll period, on or after the date on which such certificate is so furnished, provided that certificates furnished before January 1, 1983, shall be considered as furnished on that date.</p><p>D. A withholding exemption certificate which takes effect under this section shall continue in effect with respect to the employer until another such certificate takes effect under this section. If a withholding exemption certificate is furnished to take the place of an existing certificate, the employer at his option may continue the old certificate in force with respect to all wages paid on or before the first status determination date, January 1 or July 1, which occurs at least thirty days after the date on which such new certificate is furnished.</p><p>E. If, on any day during the calendar year, the sum of withholding exemptions to which the employee will be, or may reasonably be expected to be, entitled at the beginning of his next taxable year is different from the sum of exemptions to which the employee is entitled on such day, the employee shall in such cases and at such times as the Tax Commissioner may prescribe, furnish the employer with a withholding exemption certificate relating to the exemptions which he claims with respect to such next taxable year, which shall in no event exceed the sum of exemptions to which he will be, or may reasonably be expected to be, so entitled. Exemption certificates furnished pursuant to this subsection shall not take effect with respect to any payment of wages made in the calendar year in which the certificate is furnished.</p><p>F. If, on any day during the calendar year, the sum of withholding exemptions to which the employee is entitled is less than the sum of withholding exemptions claimed by the employee on the withholding exemption certificate then in effect with respect to him, the employee shall, within ten days thereafter, furnish the employer with a new withholding exemption certificate relating to the withholding exemptions which the employee then claims, which shall in no event exceed the sum of exemptions to which he is entitled on such day. If, on any day during the calendar year, the sum of withholding exemptions to which the employee is entitled is greater than the sum of withholding exemptions claimed, the employee may furnish the employer with a new withholding exemption certificate relating to the withholding exemptions which the employee then claims, which shall in no event exceed the sum of exemptions to which he is entitled on such day.</p><p>G. Withholding exemption certificates shall be in such form and contain such information as the Tax Commissioner may prescribe.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 58-151.11; 1962, c. 612; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 171; 1984, c. 675.</p>