# § 13.1-819 Articles of incorporation.

<p>A. The articles of incorporation shall set forth:</p><p>1. A corporate name for the corporation that satisfies the requirements of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-829/'>13.1-829</a>.</p><p>2. If the corporation is to have no members, a statement to that effect.</p><p>3. If the corporation is to have one or more classes of members, any provision which the incorporators elect to set forth in the articles of incorporation or, if the articles of incorporation so provide, in the bylaws designating the class or classes of members, stating the qualifications and rights of the members of each class and conferring, limiting or denying the right to vote.</p><p>4. If the directors or any of them are not to be elected or appointed by one or more classes of members, a statement of the manner in which such directors shall be elected or appointed, and a designation of ex officio directors, if any.</p><p>5. The address of the corporation's initial registered office (including both (i) the post-office address with street and number, if any, and (ii) the name of the city or county in which it is located), and the name of its initial registered agent at that office, and that the agent is either (i) an individual who is a resident of Virginia and either a director of the corporation or a member of the Virginia State Bar or (ii) a domestic or foreign stock or nonstock corporation, limited liability company or registered limited liability partnership authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The articles of incorporation may set forth:</p><p>1. The names and addresses of the individuals who are to serve as the initial directors;</p><p>2. Provisions not inconsistent with law:</p><p>a. Stating the purpose or purposes for which the corporation is organized;</p><p>b. Regarding the management of the business and regulation of the affairs of the corporation;</p><p>c. Defining, limiting and regulating the powers of the corporation, its directors, and its members; and</p><p>d. Any provision that under this Act is required or permitted to be set forth in the bylaws.</p><p>C. The articles of incorporation need not set forth any of the corporate powers enumerated in this Act.</p><p>D. Provisions of the articles of incorporation may be made dependent upon facts objectively ascertainable outside the articles of incorporation in accordance with subsection L of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-804/'>13.1-804</a>.</p><p>E. Except as provided in subsection A of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-855/'>13.1-855</a>, whenever a provision of the articles of incorporation is inconsistent with a bylaw, the provision of the articles of incorporation shall be controlling.</p><p>Code 1950, § 13.1-231; 1956, c. 428; 1958, c. 564; 1975, c. 500; 1982, c. 182; 1985, c. 522; 1986, c. 622; 1993, c. 113; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0162'>162</a>; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0517'>517</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0541'>541</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925'>925</a>.</p>