# ยง 54.1-3029.1 Advisory Board on Massage Therapy.

<p>The Advisory Board on Massage Therapy shall assist the Board in carrying out the provisions of this chapter regarding the qualifications, examination, registration, regulation, and standards of professional conduct of massage therapists as described in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3029/'>54.1-3029</a>. The Advisory Board shall also assist in such other matters relating to the practice of massage therapy as the Board may require.</p><p>The Advisory Board on Massage Therapy shall consist of five members to be appointed by the Governor for four-year terms as follows: three members shall be licensed massage therapists who have practiced in the Commonwealth for not less than three years prior to their appointment, one shall be an administrator or faculty member of a nationally accredited school of massage therapy, and one shall be a citizen member appointed from the Commonwealth at large.</p><p>The Advisory Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. The Advisory Board shall meet at least once a year and may hold additional meetings as necessary to perform its duties. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of business.</p><p>Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No person shall be eligible to serve on the Advisory Board for more than two successive terms.</p><p>2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0534'>534</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0324'>324</a>.</p>