# § 1-210 Computation of time.

A. When an act of the General Assembly or rule of court requires that an act be performed a prescribed amount of time before a motion or proceeding, the day of such motion or proceeding shall not be counted against the time allowed, but the day on which such act is performed may be counted as part of the time. When an act of the General Assembly or rule of court requires that an act be performed within a prescribed amount of time after any event or judgment, the day on which the event or judgment occurred shall not be counted against the time allowed.

B. When the last day for performing an act during the course of a judicial proceeding falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or any day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly, the act may be performed on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly.

C. When an act of the General Assembly specifies a maximum period of time in which a legal action may be brought and the last day of that period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly, the action may be brought on the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day or part of a day on which the clerk's office is closed as authorized by an act of the General Assembly.

D. Any court or proceeding authorized to be adjourned from day to day shall not be required to meet on a Sunday or legal holiday.

E. When an act of the General Assembly or local governing body, order of the court, or administrative regulation or order requires, either by specification of a date or by a prescribed period of time, that an act be performed or an action be filed on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday or on any day or part of a day on which the state or local government office where the act to be performed or the action to be filed is closed, the act may be performed or the action may be filed on the next business day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day on which the state or local government office is closed.

F. For the purposes of this section, any day on which the Governor authorizes the closing of the state government shall be considered a legal holiday.

Code 1919, § 5; 1932, p. 24; Code 1950, § 1-13; 1950, pp. 21, 23, §§ 1-13.3, 1-13.27; 1962, cc. 104, 284, § 1-13.3:1; 1977, c. 93; 1986, c. 166; 1987, c. 92; 2005, c. [839](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0839); 2008, c. [816](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0816); 2010, c. [96](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0096); 2014, c. [596](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0596).

