# ยง 10.1-1401 Virginia Waste Management Board continued.

A. The Virginia Waste Management Board shall consist of seven Virginia residents appointed by the Governor for terms of four years. The members of the Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth and shall be selected from the Commonwealth at large on the basis of merit without regard to political affiliation. Members shall, by their education, training, or experience, be knowledgeable of waste management and shall be fairly representative of agriculture, conservation, industry, and public health. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired portion of the term.

B. The Board shall adopt rules and procedures for the conduct of its business.

C. The Board shall elect a chairman from among its members.

D. A quorum shall consist of four members. The decision of a majority of those present and voting shall constitute a decision of the Board; however, a vote of the majority of the Board membership is required to constitute a final decision on certification of site approval. Meetings may be held at any time or place determined by the Board or upon call of the chairman or upon written request of any two members. All members shall be notified of the time and place of any meeting at least five days in advance of the meeting.

1986, c. 492, ยง 10-265; 1988, c. 891; 1994, c. [461](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0461); 2008, cc. [276](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0276), [557](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0557).

