# ยง 10.1-1419 Litter receptacles; placement; penalty for violations.

A. The Board shall promulgate regulations establishing reasonable guidelines for the owners or persons in control of any property which is held out to the public as a place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public way who may be required to place and maintain receptacles acceptable to the Board.

In formulating such regulations the Board shall consider, among other public places, the public highways of the Commonwealth, all parks, campgrounds, trailer parks, drive-in restaurants, construction sites, gasoline service stations, shopping centers, retail store parking lots, parking lots of major industrial and business firms, marinas, boat launching areas, boat moorage and fueling stations, public and private piers and beaches and bathing areas. The number of such receptacles required to be placed as specified herein shall be determined by the Board and related to the need for such receptacles. Such litter receptacles shall be maintained in a manner to prevent overflow or spillage.

B. A person owning or operating any establishment or public place in which litter receptacles of a design acceptable to the Board are required by this section shall procure and place such receptacles at his own expense on the premises in accordance with Board regulations.

C. Any person who fails to place and maintain such litter receptacles on the premises in the number and manner required by Board regulation, or who violates the provisions of this section or regulations adopted hereunder shall be subject to a fine of twenty-five dollars for each day of violation.

1987, c. 234, ยง 10-277.6; 1988, c. 891.

