# ยง 10.1-1445 Final decision on certification of site approval.

A. Within forty-five days after the close of the public hearing, the Board shall meet within or near the host community and shall vote to issue or deny the certification of site approval. The Board may include in the certification any terms and conditions which it deems necessary and appropriate to protect and prevent injury or adverse risk to health, safety, welfare, the environment and natural resources. At least seven days' notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting shall be made in the manner provided in ยง [10.1-1447](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1447/). No testimony or evidence will be received at the meeting.

B. The Board shall grant the certification of site approval if it finds:

1. That the terms and conditions thereof will protect and prevent injury or unacceptable adverse risk to health, safety, welfare, the environment and natural resources;

2. That the facility will comply and be consistent with the criteria promulgated by the Board; and

3. That the applicant has made reasonable and appropriate efforts to reach a siting agreement with the host community including, though not limited to, efforts to mitigate or compensate the host community and its residents for any adverse economic effects of the facility. This requirement shall not apply when the host community has waived participation pursuant to subsection D of ยง [10.1-1438](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1438/).

C. The Board's decision to grant or deny certification shall be based on the hearing record and shall be accompanied by the written findings of fact and conclusions upon which the decision was based. The Board shall provide the applicant and the governing body of the host community with copies of the decision, together with the findings and conclusions, by certified mail.

D. The grant or denial of certification shall constitute final action by the Board.

1986, c. 492, ยง 10-301; 1988, c. 891.

