# ยง 10.1-2202.3 Stewardship of state-owned historic properties.

A. In order to consider the broad public interest and protect the financial investment in state-owned historic assets, the Department shall develop, on a biennial basis, a report on the stewardship of state-owned properties. The report shall include, but not be limited to, a priority list of the Commonwealth's most significant state-owned properties that are eligible for but not designated on the Virginia Landmarks Register pursuant to ยง [10.1-2206.1](/vacode/10.1-2206.1/). The report shall also provide a priority list of significant state-owned properties, designated on or eligible for the Virginia Landmarks Register, which are threatened with the loss of historic integrity or functionality. In developing the report, the Department shall, in addition to significance and threat, take into account other public interest considerations associated with landmark designation and the provision of proper care and maintenance of property. These considerations shall include: (i) potential financial consequences to the Commonwealth associated with failure to care for and maintain property, (ii) significant public educational potential, (iii) significant tourism opportunities, and (iv) community values and comments. The report shall be forwarded to all affected state agencies, including institutions of higher education, the Governor, the Secretary of Administration, the Secretary of Natural and Historic Resources, the Secretary of Finance, and the General Assembly. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall assist and support the development of the report by providing information and access to property as may be requested.

B. Each agency that owns property included in the report required by subsection A shall initiate consultation with the Department within 60 days of receipt of the report and make a good faith effort to reach a consensus decision on designation of an unlisted property and on the feasibility, advisability, and general manner of addressing property needs in the case of a threatened historic property.

C. The Department shall prepare a biennial status report summarizing actions, decisions taken, and the condition of properties previously identified as priorities. The status report, which may be combined with the report required pursuant to subsection A, shall be forwarded to all affected state agencies, including institutions of higher education, as well as to the Governor, the Secretary of Administration, the Secretary of Natural and Historic Resources, the Secretary of Finance, and the General Assembly.

D. The reports required in subsections A and C shall be completed and distributed as required no later than May 1 of each odd-numbered year, so that information contained therein is available to the agencies, the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary of Administration, and the Governor, as well as the General Assembly, during budget preparation.

2006, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0747); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [401](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0401).

