# ยง 10.1-500 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Board" means the Virginia Soil and Water Conservation Board.

"County" includes towns.

"City" includes all cities chartered under the Commonwealth.

"District" or "soil and water conservation district" means a political subdivision of this Commonwealth organized in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

"District director" means a member of the governing body of a district authorized to serve as a director.

"Due notice" means notice published at least twice, with an interval of at least seven days between the two publication dates, in a newspaper or other publication of general circulation within the appropriate area, or if no such publication of general circulation is available, by posting at a reasonable number of conspicuous places within the appropriate area. Such posting shall include, where possible, posting at public places where it is customary to post notices concerning county or municipal affairs. Hearings held pursuant to such notice, at the time and place designated in the notice, may be adjourned from time to time without renewing the notice for the adjourned dates.

"Governing body of a city or county" means the entire governing body regardless of whether all or part of that city or county is included or to be included within a district.

"Government" or "governmental" includes the government of this Commonwealth, the government of the United States, and any of their subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities.

"Land occupier" or "occupier of land" includes any person, firm or corporation who holds title to, or is in possession of, any lands lying within a district organized, or proposed to be organized, under the provisions of this chapter, in the capacity of owner, lessee, renter, tenant, or cropper. The terms "land occupier" and "occupier of land" shall not include an ordinary employee or hired hand who is furnished a dwelling, garden, utilities, supplies, or the like, as part payment, or payment in full, for his labor.

"Locality" means a county, city or town.

Code 1950, ยง 21-3; 1950, p. 76; 1954, c. 670; 1964, c. 512; 1970, c. 480; 1985, c. 448; 1988, c. 891.

