# ยง 10.1-603.30 Deposit of moneys; expenditures; investments.

All moneys belonging to the Fund shall be deposited in an account or accounts in banks or trust companies organized under the laws of the Commonwealth or in national banking associations located in Virginia or in savings institutions located in Virginia organized under the laws of the Commonwealth or the United States. The money in these accounts shall be paid by electronic transfer or check signed by the Executive Director of the Authority or other officers or employees designated by the Board of Directors of the Authority. All deposits of money shall, if required by the Authority, be secured in a manner determined by the Authority to be prudent, and all banks, trust companies, and savings institutions are authorized to give security for the deposits. Money in the Fund shall not be commingled with other money of the Authority. Money in the Fund not needed for immediate use or disbursement may be invested or reinvested by the Authority in obligations or securities that are considered lawful investments for public funds under the laws of the Commonwealth. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including any appropriated funds and all principal, interest accrued, and payments at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund.

2022, cc. [739](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0739), [782](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0782).

