# ยง 10.1-1439 Briefing meetings.

A. Not more than seventy-five nor less than sixty days after the delivery of the notice of intent to the host community, the Board shall conduct a briefing meeting in or in reasonable proximity to the host community. A quorum of the Board shall be present. Notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the briefing session shall be prepared by the Board and shall accompany the notice of intent delivered pursuant to subdivision C 1 of ยง [10.1-1437](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1437/) and shall be included in the notice published pursuant to subdivision C 2 of ยง [10.1-1437](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1437/).

At least one representative of the applicant shall be present at the briefing meeting.

The Board shall adopt procedures for the conduct of briefing meetings. The briefing meeting shall provide information on the proposed site and facility and comments, suggestions and questions thereon shall be received.

B. The Board may conduct additional briefing meetings at any time in or near a host community, provided that at least fifteen days in advance of a meeting, notice of the date, time, place and purpose of the meeting is delivered in writing to the applicant, each member of the governing body and to all owners of property adjoining the proposed site.

C. A stenographic or electronic record shall be made of all briefing meetings. The record shall be available for inspection during normal business hours.

1986, c. 492, ยง 10-295; 1988, c. 891.

