# ยง 10.1-1197.2 Small Business Environmental Compliance Assistance Fund established; administration; collection of money.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Small Business Environmental Compliance Assistance Fund, hereafter referred to as the "Fund." The Fund shall be comprised of (i) moneys appropriated to the Fund by the General Assembly, (ii) receipts by the Fund from loans made by it, (iii) all income from the investment of moneys held by the Fund, (iv) any moneys transferred from the Virginia Environmental Emergency Response Fund as authorized by ยง [10.1-2502](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-2502/), and (v) any other moneys designated for deposit to the Fund from any source, public or private. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes provided in this article. Any moneys appropriated or otherwise credited to the Fund that were received by the Department pursuant to Title V (42 U.S.C. ยง 7661 et seq.) of the federal Clean Air Act shall be used solely for purposes associated with Title V of the federal Clean Air Act. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director of the Department. The Fund shall be administered and managed by the Department, or any entity operating under a contract or agreement with the Department.

B. The Department, or its designated agent, is empowered to collect moneys due to the Fund. Proceedings to recover moneys due to the Fund may be instituted in the name of the Fund in any appropriate circuit court.

1997, cc. [624](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0624), [850](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0850).

