# ยง 10.1-1440 Impact analysis.

A. The applicant shall submit to the Board a draft impact analysis for the proposed facility within ninety days after the initial briefing meeting. At the applicant's expense, copies of the draft impact analysis shall be furnished as follows: five to the host community, and one to each person owning property adjoining the site of the proposed facility. At least one copy shall be made available at a convenient location in the host community for public inspection and copying during normal business hours.

B. The draft impact analysis shall include a detailed assessment of the project's suitability with respect to the criteria and other information the Board may require by regulation.

C. The Board, at the applicant's expense, shall cause notice of the filing of the draft impact analysis to be made in the manner provided in ยง [10.1-1447](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1447/) within ten days of receipt. The notice shall include (i) a general description of the analysis, (ii) a list of recipients, (iii) a description of the places and times that the analysis will be available for inspection, (iv) a description of the Board's procedures for receiving comments on the analysis, and (v) the addresses and telephone numbers for obtaining information from the Board.

D. The Board shall allow forty-five days after publication of notice for comment on the draft impact analysis. No sooner than thirty and no more than forty days after publication of notice of the draft impact analysis, the Board shall conduct a public meeting on the draft impact analysis in or near the host community. The meeting shall be for the purpose of explaining, answering questions and receiving comments on the draft impact analysis. A representative of the governing body and a representative of the applicant shall be present at the meeting.

E. Within ten days after the close of the comment period, the Board shall forward to the applicant a copy of all comments received on the draft impact analysis, together with its own comments.

F. The applicant shall prepare and submit a final impact analysis to the Board after receiving the comments. The final impact analysis shall reflect the comments as they pertain to each of the items listed in subsection B of this section. Upon request, a copy of the final impact analysis shall be provided by the applicant to each of the persons who received the draft impact analysis.

G. This section shall not apply when the host community has elected to waive participation under subsection D of ยง [10.1-1438](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1438/).

1986, c. 492, ยง 10-296; 1988, c. 891.

