# ยง 10.1-2213.1 Matching grants for contributions to a material restoration of a Presidential home.

A. As used in this section, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Charitable contribution" means a cash contribution from an individual, estate, corporation, partnership, trust, foundation, fund, association or any other entity or organization provided that (i) the contribution is allowable as a deduction for federal tax purposes or (ii) would have been allowable as a deduction for federal tax purposes had the entity or organization been subject to federal taxes.

"Eligible restoration expenses" means expenses incurred in the material restoration of a historic presidential home and, except in the case of demolition necessary to accomplish the restoration plan, added to the property's capital account.

"Foundation" means an entity that is exempt from federal taxation under ยง 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as may be amended, that is primarily responsible for the material restoration of a historic presidential home.

"Historic presidential home" means any home of a President of the United States located in Orange County, Virginia that is individually designated as a National Historic Landmark by the United States Secretary of the Interior.

"Material restoration" means restoration work (i) that restores a historic presidential home to within the period of significance stated in the National Historic Landmark individual designation of such home by the United States Secretary of the Interior, (ii) that is consistent with "The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Restoration," and (iii) the cost of which amounts to at least 50 percent of the assessed value of such home for local real estate tax purposes for the year prior to the initial expenditure of any eligible restoration expenses, unless such home is an owner-occupied building, in which case the cost shall amount to at least 25 percent of the assessed value of such home for local real estate tax purposes for the year prior to the initial expenditure of any eligible restoration expenses.

B. The Commonwealth shall provide matching grants for charitable contributions received on or after July 1, 2003, by the Foundation that are actually spent or expended by the Foundation in the material restoration of a historic presidential home. The amount of the matching grant to be paid by the Commonwealth shall equal $0.20 for each $1 of charitable contribution that is actually spent or expended by the Foundation in the material restoration of a historic presidential home.

C. In January of each calendar year the Foundation shall submit to the Director the total amount of charitable contributions it received that were actually spent or expended in the immediately preceding calendar year for the material restoration of a historic presidential home. As a condition of receiving a matching grant, the Foundation shall at the same time submit to the Director such other information requested by the Director that is reasonably necessary to verify such charitable contributions and the actual use of such contributions.

The Director shall, as soon as practicable after receiving such submission and verifying such charitable contributions and their actual expenditure for the material restoration of a historic presidential home, make a written certification to the Comptroller of the amount of the grant to be paid to the Foundation. The amount of the grant for each calendar year shall be paid to the Foundation in six equal annual installments on March 15 of each year beginning with the year of the Director's certification for the relevant calendar year.

D. In no case shall the total amount of grants paid under this section exceed 20 percent of the estimated eligible restoration expenses of the historic presidential home. The Director is authorized to suspend the processing of charitable contribution submissions made by the Foundation if the Director reasonably believes that (i) such maximum amount may be exceeded or (ii) the material restoration will not be performed or such restoration work has been indefinitely suspended.

2005, c. [470](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0470).

