# ยง 10.1-1238 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Activity and use limitations" means restrictions or obligations created under this chapter with respect to real property.

"Agency" means the Department of Environmental Quality or any other state or federal agency that determines or approves the environmental response project pursuant to which the environmental covenant is created.

"Common interest community" means a condominium, cooperative, or other real property with respect to which a person, by virtue of the person's ownership of a parcel of real property, is obligated to pay property taxes or insurance premiums, for maintenance or improvement of other real property described in a recorded covenant that creates the common interest community.

"Department" means the Department of Environmental Quality.

"Environmental covenant" means a servitude arising under an environmental response project that imposes activity and use limitations.

"Environmental response project" means a plan or work performed for environmental remediation of real property and conducted:

1. Under a federal or state program governing environmental remediation of real property;

2. Incident to closure of a solid or hazardous waste management unit, if the closure is conducted with approval of an agency; or

3. Under a state voluntary clean-up program including the Brownfield Restoration and Land Renewal Act (ยง [10.1-1230](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1230/) et seq.).

"Holder" means the grantee of an environmental covenant as specified in subsection A of ยง [10.1-1239](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1239/).

"Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, public corporation, government, governmental subdivision, agency or instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity.

"Record," used as a noun, means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.

"State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

2010, c. [691](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0691).

