# ยง 10.1-1422.6 Used motor oil, other fluids for automotive engine maintenance, and oil filters; signs; establishment of statewide program.

A. The Department shall establish a statewide management program for used motor oil, other fluids for automotive engine maintenance, and oil filters. The program shall encourage the environmentally sound management of motor oil, other fluids used for automotive engine maintenance, and oil filters by (i) educating consumers on the environmental benefits of proper management, (ii) publicizing options for proper disposal, and (iii) promoting a management infrastructure that allows for the convenient recycling of these materials by the public. The Department may contract with a qualified public or private entity to implement this program.

B. The Department shall maintain a statewide list of sites that accept used (i) motor oil, (ii) other fluids used for automotive engine maintenance, and (iii) oil filters from the public. The list shall be updated at least annually. The Department shall create, maintain, and promote a toll-free hotline number and a website where consumers may receive information describing the location of collection sites in their locality to properly dispose of used motor oil, other fluids for automotive engine maintenance, and oil filters.

C. The Department shall establish an ongoing outreach program to existing and potential collection sites that provides a point of contact for questions and disseminates information on (i) the way to establish a collection site, (ii) technical issues associated with being a collection site, and (iii) the benefits of continued participation in the program.

D. Any person who sells motor oil, other fluids used for automotive engine maintenance, or oil filters at the retail level and who does not accept the return of used motor oil, other fluids used for automotive engine maintenance, or oil filters shall post a sign that encourages the environmentally sound management of these products and provides a website address and toll-free hotline number where additional information on the locations of used motor oil, other fluids used for automotive engine maintenance, and oil filters collection sites are available. This sign shall be provided by the Department or its designee to all establishments selling motor oil, other fluids used for automotive engine maintenance, or oil filters. In determining the size and manner in which such signs may be affixed or displayed at the retail establishment, the Department shall give consideration to the space available in such retail establishments.

E. Any person who violates any provision of subsection D shall be subject to a fine of $25.

2001, c. [569](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0569); 2008, c. [646](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0646).

