# § 10.1-401 Powers and duties of Director; acquisition of property.

A. The Director shall have the duty to:

1. Identify rivers or sections of rivers, including their shores and natural environs, which should be considered for designation because of their scenic, recreational and historic attributes and natural beauty.

2. Conduct studies of rivers or sections of rivers to be considered for designation as wild, scenic or recreational rivers in cooperation with appropriate agencies of the Commonwealth and the United States.

3. Recommend to the Governor and to the General Assembly rivers or sections thereof to be considered for designation as scenic rivers.

4. Appoint Scenic River Advisory Committees or other local or regional committees of not less than three members to consider and manage scenic river interests and issues. The committees shall assist and advise the Director and the local governing body with the protection or management of the scenic river segment in their jurisdiction. The committees may consider and comment to the Director on any federal, state, or local governmental plans to approve, license, fund, or construct facilities that would alter any of the assets that qualified the river for scenic designation.

B. The Director is authorized to acquire in the name of the Commonwealth, either by gift or purchase, any real property or interest therein which the Director considers necessary or desirable for the protection of any scenic river, and may retain title to or transfer the property to other state agencies. The Director may not exercise the right of eminent domain in acquiring any such property or interest.

1970, c. 468, §§ 10-167, 10-169, 10-170, 10-175; 1984, c. 739; 1985, c. 346; 1988, c. 891; 2003, c. [240](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0240).

