# ยง 13.1-1246 Voluntary cancellation of certificate of registration.

A. A foreign business trust registered to transact business in the Commonwealth may apply to the Commission for a certificate of cancellation to cancel its certificate of registration. The application shall be on a form prescribed and furnished by the Commission, which shall set forth:

1. The name of the foreign business trust and the name of the state or other jurisdiction under whose law it is or was formed, and the identification number issued by the Commission to the business trust;

2. If applicable, that the foreign business trust was a party to a merger permitted by the laws of the state or other jurisdiction under whose laws it was organized and that it was not the surviving entity of the merger;

3. That the foreign business trust is not transacting business in the Commonwealth and that it surrenders its registration to transact business in the Commonwealth;

4. That the foreign business trust revokes the authority of its registered agent to accept service on its behalf and appoints the clerk of the Commission as its agent for service of process in any proceeding based on a cause of action arising during the time it was authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth;

5. A mailing address to which the clerk of the Commission may mail a copy of any process served on him under subdivision 4; and

6. A commitment to notify the clerk of the Commission in the future of any change in the mailing address of the business trust.

B. If the Commission finds that the application complies with the requirements of law and all required fees have been paid, it shall issue a certificate of cancellation canceling the certificate of registration.

C. Before any foreign business trust registered to transact business in the Commonwealth cancels its existence, it shall file with the Commission an application for a certificate of cancellation. Whether or not such application is filed, the cancellation of the existence of such foreign business trust shall not take away or impair any remedy available against such business trust for any right or claim existing or any liability incurred prior to such cancellation. Any such action or proceeding against such foreign business trust may be defended by such business trust in its name. The trustees and beneficial owners shall have power to take such action as shall be appropriate to protect such remedy, right, or claim. The right of a foreign business trust that has canceled its existence to institute and maintain in its name actions, suits, or proceedings in the courts of the Commonwealth shall be governed by the law of the state of its formation.

D. Service of process on the clerk of the Commission is service of process on a foreign business trust whose certificate of registration has been canceled pursuant to this section. Service upon the clerk shall be made in accordance with ยง [12.1-19.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-19.1/), and service upon the foreign business trust may be made in any other manner permitted by law.

2002, c. [621](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0621); 2008, cc. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0588), [770](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0770); 2009, c. [167](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0167); 2012, c. [130](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0130); 2013, c. [25](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0025).

