# § 13.1-324 Directors generally; executive committee.

(a) The business of the association shall be managed by a board of not less than five directors. The directors, with the exception of the public directors, shall be elected from the membership of the association or from the officers, directors or membership of a member association. The bylaws shall provide that one or more directors shall be appointed by the Director of the State Agricultural Extension Service. The director or directors so appointed shall be known as public directors. They need not be members of the association, or officers, directors or members of a member association, but shall have the same powers and rights as the directors elected by the members. A director shall hold office for the term for which he was appointed or elected and until his successor is elected, or appointed, and qualified.

(b) The names of the first directors shall be stated in the articles of incorporation. Their successors shall be elected by the members at the first meeting of the members held after the incorporation of the association.

(c) The number, qualifications, terms of office, manner of election or appointment, time and place of meeting and the powers and duties of the directors may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the articles of incorporation, be prescribed by the bylaws.

(1) Except as otherwise prescribed in the bylaws, a director shall be elected or appointed for a term of one year.

(2) Except as otherwise prescribed in the bylaws, vacancies in the board, other than by expiration of term, shall be filled by the remaining members of the board, unless the bylaws provide for the election of directors by districts, in which case the board shall call a special meeting of the members or delegates in the district to elect a person qualified to fill the vacancy. A director elected by the remaining members of the board shall serve until his successor is elected by the members at their next annual meeting or at any special meeting called and held prior thereto. This subsection shall not apply, however, to public directors; any vacancies occurring in the office of a public director shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.

(d) The bylaws may provide that the territory in which the association has members shall be divided into districts and that the directors shall be elected according to such districts, either directly or by district delegates elected by the members in that district. In such case, the bylaws shall specify, or vest in the board of directors authority to determine, the number of directors to be elected by each district and the manner and method of apportioning the directors and of districting and redistricting the territory covered by the association. The bylaws may provide that primary elections shall be held in each district to nominate the directors apportioned thereto and that the result of all such primary elections may be ratified by the next regular meeting of the association or may be considered as a final election.

(e) The bylaws may provide for an executive committee to be elected by the board of directors from their number and may allot to such committee all the functions and powers of the board subject to its general direction and control.

Code 1950, §§ 13-266, 13-267; 1956, c. 428.

