# § 13.1-1264 Definitions.

As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Articles of organization" has the same meaning specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Converting entity" means the domestic or foreign business trust, corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, partnership, or other entity that adopts a plan of domestication or plan of entity conversion pursuant to this article.

"Corporation" and "domestic corporation" have the same meaning specified in § [13.1-603](/vacode/13.1-603/).

"Domesticated business trust" means the domesticating business trust as it continues in existence after a domestication.

"Domesticating business trust" means the domestic business trust that approves a plan of domestication pursuant to § [13.1-1267](/vacode/13.1-1267/) or the foreign business trust that approves a domestication pursuant to the organic law of the foreign business trust.

"Domestication" means a transaction pursuant to this article, including domestication of a foreign business trust as a domestic business trust or domestication of a domestic business trust in another jurisdiction, where the other jurisdiction authorizes such a transaction even if by another name.

"Domestic entity" means a domestic corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, partnership, or other entity.

"Foreign corporation" has the same meaning specified in § [13.1-603](/vacode/13.1-603/).

"Foreign entity" means a foreign business trust, corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, partnership, or other entity.

"Foreign limited liability company" has the same meaning specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Foreign limited partnership" has the same meaning specified in § [50-73.1](/vacode/50-73.1/).

"Foreign partnership" has the same meaning specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Limited liability company" and "domestic limited liability company" have the same meaning specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Limited partnership" and "domestic limited partnership" have the same meaning specified in § [50-73.1](/vacode/50-73.1/).

"Member" has the same meaning specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Membership interest" or "interest" has the same meaning specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Other entity" means a domestic real estate investment trust or common law trust.

"Partnership" and "domestic partnership" mean an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners a business for profit formed under § [50-73.88](/vacode/50-73.88/), or predecessor law of this Commonwealth, and includes, for all purposes of the laws of this Commonwealth, a registered limited liability partnership.

"Resulting entity" means the domestic limited liability company or business trust that is in existence upon consummation of an entity conversion pursuant to this article.

"Surviving entity" means the domestic business trust that is in existence upon consummation of a domestication pursuant to this article.

2002, c. [621](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0621); 2016, c. [288](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0288); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [487](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487).

