# ยง 13.1-674 Qualifications for directors or for nominees for director.

A. The articles of incorporation or bylaws may prescribe qualifications for directors or for nominees for director.

B. A requirement that is based on a past, current, or prospective action, or on an expression of an opinion, by a nominee or director that (i) relates to the discharge of a director's duties and (ii) could limit the ability of the nominee or director to discharge his duties as a director is not a permissible qualification for a nominee or director under this section. Permissible qualifications for a nominee or director under this section include the person's not being or having been subject to specified criminal, civil, or regulatory sanctions or not having been removed as a director by judicial action or for cause.

C. A director need not be a resident of the Commonwealth or a shareholder of the corporation unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws so prescribe.

D. A qualification for nomination for director that is prescribed before a person's nomination shall apply to the person at the time of his nomination. A qualification for nomination for director that is prescribed after a person's nomination shall not apply to that person with respect to such nomination.

E. A qualification for directors that is prescribed before a person's nomination for director may provide that it applies (i) only at the start of the director's term or (ii) during that person's term as director. A qualification for directors prescribed during a director's term shall not apply to that director prior to the end of that director's term.

Code 1950, ยง 13.1-35; 1956, c. 428; 1985, c. 522; 2012, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0706); 2015, c. [611](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0611); 2019, c. [734](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734).

