# ยง 13.1-860 Removal of directors.

A. The members may remove one or more directors with or without cause, unless the articles of incorporation provide that directors may be removed only with cause.

B. If a director is elected by a voting group of members, only the members of that voting group may participate in the vote to remove him.

C. If cumulative voting is authorized, a director may not be removed if the number of votes sufficient to elect him under cumulative voting is voted against his removal. If cumulative voting is not authorized, unless the articles of incorporation require a greater vote, a director may be removed if the number of votes cast to remove him constitutes a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at an election of directors of the voting group or voting groups by which the director was elected.

D. If a corporation has no members or no members with voting rights, a director may be removed pursuant to procedures set forth in the articles of incorporation or bylaws, and if none are provided, a director may be removed by such vote as would suffice for his election.

E. A director may be removed only at a meeting called for the purpose of removing him. The meeting notice shall state that the purpose or one of the purposes of the meeting is removal of the director.

F. Upon the removal of a director, the corporation may file an amended annual report with the Commission indicating the removal of the director and the successor in office, if any.

Code 1950, ยง 13.1-221; 1956, c. 428; 1985, c. 522; 1987, c. 177; 1991, c. 124; 2007, c. [925](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925).

