# ยง 13.1-695 Resignation and removal of officers.

A. An officer may resign at any time by delivering a written notice to the board of directors, its chairman, the appointing officer, if any, or the corporation's secretary. A resignation is effective as provided in subdivision A 9 of ยง [13.1-610](/vacode/13.1-610/) unless the notice provides for a delayed effectiveness. If effectiveness of a resignation is stated to be delayed and the board of directors or the appointing officer, if any, accepts the delay, the board of directors or the appointing officer, if any, may fill the pending vacancy before the delayed effectiveness but the new officer may not take office until the vacancy occurs.

B. An officer may be removed at any time with or without cause by (i) the board of directors; (ii) the appointing officer, if any, unless the bylaws or the board of directors provides otherwise; or (iii) any other officer, if authorized by the bylaws or the board of directors. An officer's removal does not affect such officer's contract rights, if any, with the corporation. An officer's resignation does not affect the corporation's contract rights, if any, with the officer.

C. Any person who has resigned as an officer of a corporation, or whose name is of record in the office of the clerk of the Commission as an officer of a corporation, may file a statement to that effect with the Commission.

D. Upon the resignation or removal of an officer, the corporation may file an amended annual report with the Commission indicating the resignation or removal of the officer and the successor in office, if any.

E. As used in this section "appointing officer" means the officer, including any successor to that officer, who, in accordance with subsection B of ยง [13.1-693](/vacode/13.1-693/), appointed the officer who is resigning or being removed.

Code 1950, ยง 13.1-46; 1956, c. 428; 1985, c. 522; 1990, c. 282; 1991, cc. 124, 146; 2005, c. [765](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0765); 2019, c. [734](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734); 2020, c. [1226](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1226).

