# ยง 13.1-1202 Filing requirements.

A. A document shall satisfy the requirements of this section, and of any other section that adds to or varies these requirements, to be entitled to be filed with the Commission.

B. The document shall be one that this chapter requires or permits to be filed with the Commission.

C. The document shall contain the information required by this chapter. It may also contain other information.

D. The document shall be typewritten or printed. The typewritten or printed portion shall be in black. Photocopies, or other reproduced copies, of typewritten or printed documents may be filed. In every case, information in the document shall be legible and the document shall be capable of being reformatted and reproduced in copies of archival quality.

E. The document shall be in the English language. A business trust name need not be in English if written in English letters or Arabic or Roman numerals. The articles of trust, duly authenticated by the official having custody of the applicable records in the state or other jurisdiction under whose law the business trust is formed, which are required of each foreign business trust, need not be in English if accompanied by a reasonably authenticated English translation.

F. The document shall be signed in the name of the domestic or foreign business trust:

1. By a trustee or by an officer of the business trust;

2. If the business trust has not been formed, by the person forming the business trust; or

3. If the business trust is in the hands of a receiver, trustee, or other court-appointed fiduciary, by that fiduciary.

G. The person executing the document shall sign it and state beneath or opposite his signature his name and the capacity in which he executes the document. Any signature may be a facsimile.

H. If, pursuant to any provision of this chapter, the Commission has prescribed a mandatory form for the document, the document shall be in or on the prescribed form.

I. The document shall be delivered to the Commission for filing and shall be accompanied by the required filing fee and any registration fee required by this chapter.

J. The Commission may accept the electronic filing of any information required or permitted to be filed by this chapter and may prescribe the methods of execution, recording, reproduction and certification of electronically filed information.

2002, c. [621](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0621); 2013, c. [25](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0025).

