# ยง 15.2-5603 Board to exercise powers of authority.

The powers of each authority created hereunder shall be exercised by a board which shall consist of not less than five nor more than seventeen members who shall be appointed by the participating localities and who shall be selected in the manner and for the terms provided by the ordinance or resolution creating the authority. Officers and employees of the participating localities may be appointed to the board and may constitute a majority of the members of the board. The members of the board shall elect one of their number chairman and shall elect a secretary and treasurer who need not be members of the board. The offices of secretary and treasurer may be combined. A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum and the vote of a majority of such members shall be necessary for any action taken by the authority. No vacancy in the membership of the board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The members of the board shall be reimbursed for the amount of actual expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties. The localities may provide for compensation of the members of the board; provided no compensation shall be paid for meetings not attended.

Alternate members of the board may also be selected. Such alternates shall be selected in the same manner as the members. The term of each alternate shall be the same as the term of the member for whom each serves as an alternate; however, the alternate's term shall not expire because of the member's death, disqualification, resignation or termination of employment with the member's locality. If a member is not present at a meeting of the authority, the alternate for the member shall have all the voting and other rights of a member and shall be counted for purposes of determining a quorum at any meeting of the authority.

Code 1950, ยง 15-714.16; 1962, c. 393, ยง 4, ยง 15.1-1274; 1974, c. 132; 1986, c. 442; 1995, c. [626](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0626); 1996, c. [1021](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1021); 1997, c. 587.

