# ยง 15.2-3600 Petition for incorporation of community; appointment of special court.

A petition signed by 100 voters of any community may be presented to the circuit court for the county in which such community, or the greater part thereof, is situated, requesting that the community be incorporated as a town. A plat showing the boundaries of the community shall be attached to the petition. The circuit court with which the petition is filed shall notify the Supreme Court, which shall appoint a special court to hear the case as prescribed by Chapter 30 (ยง [15.2-3000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3000/) et seq.) of this title. The plat shall be prepared by a registered surveyor in a form suitable for recording in the clerk's office of the circuit court. A copy of the petition shall be served upon the county attorney or, if there is no county attorney, the attorney for the Commonwealth, and each member of the governing body of the county or counties wherein the area sought to be incorporated lies. The governing body at its option may become a party to the proceeding. The petition shall be accompanied by proof that:

1. The petition has been available for public inspection in the office of the clerk of the circuit court; and

2. The following have been published once a week for four successive weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the county:

a. Notice of the time and place the petition would be presented; and

b. The text of the petition in full; or

c. A descriptive summary of the petition and notice that the petition may be inspected at the circuit court clerk's office.

Code 1950, ยง 15-66; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-966; 1964, c. 467; 1975, c. 629; 1976, c. 586; 1979, c. 85; 1980, c. 45; 1997, c. 587.

