# ยง 15.2-7602 Board of Authority; members and officers; staff; annual report.

A. All powers, rights, and duties conferred by this chapter, or other provisions of law, upon the Authority shall be exercised by the Board of the Rural Coastal Virginia Community Enhancement Authority, hereinafter referred to as the Board or the Board of the Authority. Initial appointments shall begin July 1, 2017. The Board shall consist of up to 15 members as follows: one member of each of the 12 counties' governing bodies if so appointed by the respective governing bodies and three at-large members, who shall be appointed by the Governor and who shall be residents of the coastal region. In addition, the Secretary of Commerce and Trade or his designee shall serve as a nonvoting ex officio member of the Board. All members shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed for one additional term. A position shall be considered vacant if a member's term of office has ended. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointee. For the initial appointments only, approximately half of the members appointed by the governing bodies shall be appointed for two-year terms, and such initial terms shall not be counted toward the term limitation.

B. Each member of the Board shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, take and subscribe to the oath prescribed in ยง [49-1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/49-1/). Members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.

C. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of a majority present shall be necessary for any action taken by the Board. No vacancy in the membership of the Board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Board.

D. The Board shall elect from its membership a chairman and a vice-chairman for each calendar year.

E. Staffing and support for the Authority shall be provided by the counties and the planning district commissions that make up the Authority. Additional staff support may be hired or contracted for by the Authority through funds raised by or provided to it. The Authority is authorized to determine the duties of such staff and fix staff compensation within available resources.

F. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall cooperate with the Authority and, upon request, shall assist the Authority in fulfilling its purposes and mission. The Secretary of Commerce and Trade or his designee shall act as the chief liaison between the administrative agencies and the Authority.

G. The Board, promptly following the close of the fiscal year, shall submit an annual report of the Authority's activities for the preceding year to the Governor, the General Assembly, and the board of supervisors of each member county. Each such report shall set forth a complete operating and financial statement covering the operation of the Authority during such year.

2017, c. [388](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0388).

