# ยง 15.2-2510 Comparative report of local government revenues and expenditures.

A. The treasurer or other chief financial officer of each locality shall file annually on or before December 15 with the Auditor of Public Accounts a detailed statement prepared according to the Auditor's specifications showing the amount of revenues, expenditures and fund balances of the locality for the preceding fiscal year, accompanied by the locality's audited financial report. The submittal to the Auditor of Public Accounts shall include a notarized statement from the chief elected official and the chief administrative officer of the locality that the locality's audited financial report has been presented to the local governing body.

B. If such annual statement is not filed with the Auditor of Public Accounts, he may perform such work as is necessary to comply with the provisions of this section or hire certified public accountants to do such work. In either event the expenses of such work shall be charged to and paid by the locality failing to supply the required information.

C. The Auditor of Public Accounts shall prepare and publish annually by February 15 a statement showing in detail the total and per capita revenues and expenditures of all localities for the preceding fiscal year. The statement shall contain such analytical tables, explanations and comparisons as may lead to a clear understanding of such information and make the information readily accessible to the readers.

The Auditor of Public Accounts shall mail or deliver by February 16 of each year a copy of the statement to the members of the General Assembly, to the members and clerks of the local governing bodies, and until the supply is exhausted to every citizen who may request a copy.

The provisions of this section shall apply to all counties and cities, to all towns having a population of 3,500 or over, and to all towns constituting a separate school division regardless of their population.

Code 1950, ยง 15-581; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-166; 1978, c. 725; 1981, c. 139; 1997, c. [587](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587); 2017, c. [484](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0484); 2020, c. [17](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0017).

