# ยง 15.2-2403.2 Virginia Wallops Research Park Leadership Council established.

A. The Virginia Wallops Research Park Leadership Council (the Council) is established as a cooperative management and oversight body to superintend the development and operation of the Wallops Research Park, a service district created pursuant to ยง [15.2-2400](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2400/), consisting uniquely and exclusively of adjacent lands being a portion of NASA/Wallops Flight Facility, the Marine Science Consortium, and lands of Accomack County, a political subdivision of the Commonwealth. The purpose of the Council shall be to advise the Governor, state economic development officials, state workforce development officials, and the Wallops Research Park landowners on appropriate development and operations strategies for the Park with emphasis on policy recommendations that will enhance the Park's global competitive advantage in both research and technology-based commercial endeavors.

B. Persons appointed to the Council shall be selected for their knowledge of, background in, or experience with basic and applied research, emerging technologies, workforce development needs of industries, commercialization of the results and outputs of research activities, and the development and financing of technology intensive enterprises.

C. The Council shall consist of six members, all of whom shall serve as ex officio members with voting privileges: the Director of the NASA/Wallops Flight Facility or his designee, who shall retain his absolute duty of loyalty to the federal government; the Director of the U.S. Navy Surface Combat Systems Center or his designee, who shall retain his absolute duty of loyalty to the federal government; the Director of the Marine Science Consortium or his designee, who shall retain his absolute duty of loyalty to the Consortium; the Accomack County Administrator or his designee, who shall retain his absolute duty of loyalty to Accomack County; the Chancellor of the Virginia Community College System or his designee; and the Virginia Secretary of Commerce and Trade, or his designee. All members shall be appointed to serve terms coincident with their terms of office.

D. The Council shall designate one member as its chair, and is authorized to adopt bylaws.

E. A majority of the members of the Council shall constitute a quorum. Council meetings shall be as specified in its bylaws or upon the call of the chair.

F. Members of the Council shall receive no compensation, but shall be entitled to be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.

G. The Council shall:

1. Undertake studies, gather and analyze information, and make recommendations in order to accomplish its purposes as set forth in subsection A;

2. Apply for, accept, and expend gifts, grants, or donations from public, quasi-public or private sources, and state funds that may be appropriated by the federal government, the General Assembly, or any state government to carry out its purpose;

3. Report annually its findings and recommendations regarding the development and operation of the Wallops Research Park. The Council may make interim reports as it deems advisable; and

4. Assist the Virginia Community College System and Eastern Shore Community College, the lead education and training entities for the Park, in developing the necessary infrastructure to meet the workforce and education needs of the Park to include the development of an Education and Training Center.

H. Funding necessary to support the Council's work, including but not limited to the reimbursement pursuant to subsection F, shall be provided by Accomack County from the rent revenues generated by the Wallops Research Park.

I. Accomack County shall provide staff support to the Council. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall assist the Council upon request.

2009, cc. [302](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0302), [408](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0408).

