# ยง 15.2-5357 Further provisions as to trust indenture or bond resolution; security required of depository of proceeds of bonds.

In the discretion of the authority, any bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee or trustees, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within the Commonwealth. Such trust indenture or the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds may pledge or assign the fees, rents and other charges to be received or proceeds of or rights under any contract or contracts pledged. Such trust indenture or resolution may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including particularly the appointment of a receiver for any hospital project or other property of the authority from which the revenues have been pledged and such other provisions as have hereinabove been specifically authorized to be included in any trust indenture or resolution of the authority. Any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth acting as depository of the proceeds of bonds or of revenues or other moneys may furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Any such trust indenture or resolution may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee or trustees and may restrict individual rights of action by bondholders. In addition to the foregoing, any such trust indenture or resolution may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of such trust indenture or resolution may be treated as a part of the cost of the operation of a project.

Code 1950, ยง 32-271.1; 1973, c. 462, ยง 15.1-1592; 1979, c. 719; 1997, c. 587.

