# ยง 15.2-710 Budget; county manager to be executive and administrative officer; financial condition of county.

In addition to such other duties as are or may be prescribed by law or directed by the board, the county manager shall each year on or before April 15 prepare and submit to the board a tentative budget for informative and fiscal planning purposes. The budget shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of law in effect governing the preparation of the county budget and shall show in detail the recommendations of the county manager for expenditures on each road and bridge or for other purposes.

The county manager shall be the executive and administrative officer of the county in all matters relating to the public roads and bridges of the county, and other public work and business in the county, except public schools. He shall have general supervision and charge of construction and maintenance of the public roads, bridges and landings of the county, and of public work and business of the county, except public schools, and of the purchase of supplies, equipment and materials for the roads, bridges and landings and other public work and business of the county, and the employment of all superintendents, foremen and labor therefor. However, the board may, by ordinance, prescribe rules and regulations for the purchase of all supplies, equipment and materials for the roads, bridges and landings and other public work and business of the county.

The county manager shall keep the board advised as to the county's financial condition, and shall periodically, and upon board request, provide a report to the board on the status of expenditures and revenues for the current fiscal year. On or before October 31 of each year, he shall provide a report to the board at a regular board meeting on expenses and revenue for the preceding year, ending June 30.

Code 1950, ยง 15-353; 1952, c. 198; 1954, c. 102; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 69; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-682; 1997, c. 587; 2004, cc. [22](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0022), [510](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0510).

