# ยง 15.2-949 Shared ride taxi systems, etc.; nonprofit vanpools.

As used herein, "shared ride taxi system" means a transportation system which employs taxicab-type vehicles or other motor vehicles which can carry no more than six passengers, and which attempts to arrange for use of such vehicles by more than one passenger per trip.

Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, any locality which is a member of any transportation district may, with the concurrence of the transportation district commission that there is a need for a shared ride taxi system and the unavailability of adequate existing public transportation or public transportation proposed to be available within a reasonable period of time, construct, finance, purchase, operate, maintain or contract for a shared ride taxi system to be operated in such locality for the health, safety, welfare, comfort and convenience of the public. Such system may be financed from general revenues or funds received from the United States government, from the Commonwealth or any other source. Such system or the equipment and property needed for such system may also be constructed or purchased from proceeds of bonds which may be issued pursuant to the Public Finance Act (ยง [15.2-2600](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2600/) et seq.). Rates may be charged for the use of the system in such amount as the governing body of the locality deems reasonable, and different rates may be charged to different reasonable classifications of users.

The need for a shared ride taxi system and the unavailability of adequate existing or proposed public transportation may be based on the lack of such system or on the lack of such system at such user rates as will promote the health, safety, welfare, comfort and convenience of the public. Contracts may be made with existing or proposed shared ride taxi systems, both publicly and privately owned, for the subsidy of all users or groups of users.

In the administration of this section, private carriers are preferred over public ownership or operation; therefore, before any such locality undertakes to establish and operate its own transportation system which uses taxis or other similar vehicles, it shall first make a bona fide attempt to enter into contracts with existing privately owned taxi businesses. If such locality cannot reach a reasonable agreement within an equitable period of time, then it may by ordinance proceed to establish and operate its own system.

In lieu of establishing a shared ride taxi system, such a locality may provide financial subsidies, low-interest or interest-free loans, or tax incentives to assist with the capital costs involved in the establishment of nonprofit vanpools meeting the definition of ridesharing arrangements set forth in ยง [46.2-1400](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1400/).

Any such locality shall have all powers necessary or convenient to carry out any of the foregoing powers.

1976, c. 303, ยง 15.1-37.3:3; 1988, c. 109; 1997, c. 587; 2002, c. [337](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0337).

