# ยง 15.2-5300 Finding and declaration of necessity.

It is declared that conditions resulting from the concentration of population of various cities of the Commonwealth require the construction, maintenance and operation of adequate hospital facilities for the care of the public health, for the control and treatment of epidemics, for the care of the indigent and for the public welfare. In various cities of the Commonwealth, adequate hospital facilities are not available to the inhabitants, and, consequently, many persons, including persons of low income, are forced to do without adequate medical and hospital care and accommodations. These conditions cause an increase in and the spread of disease and crime and constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals and welfare of the Commonwealth and impair economic values. The aforesaid conditions also exist in certain areas surrounding such cities, and these conditions cannot be remedied by the ordinary operations of private enterprises. The providing of adequate hospital and medical care are public uses and purposes for which public money may be spent and private property acquired. It is in the public interest that adequate hospital and medical facilities and care be provided in such concentrated centers of population in order to care for and protect the health and public welfare. The provisions hereinafter enacted are declared as a matter of legislative determination necessary in the public interest.

Code 1950, ยง 32-213; 1979, c. 719, ยง 15.1-1533; 1997, c. 587.

