# § 15.2-3543 Electoral board, general registrar and officers of election.

A. If any county and all incorporated towns located therein consolidate into a county or city, the members of the electoral board, general registrar and officers of election of the consolidating county or city shall continue to serve as like officers of the consolidated county or city until the expiration of the terms to which they were appointed.

B. If one or more counties or cities consolidate into a single county or city, the provisions set forth in this subsection shall apply as follows:

1. Electoral Board. -- The terms of the electoral board members of the consolidating localities shall expire on the effective date of consolidation. The judges of the circuit courts of the consolidating localities, no later than thirty days prior to the effective date of consolidation, shall appoint pursuant to § [24.2-106](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-106/) for the consolidated county or city an electoral board of three members who shall qualify and take office on the day following the effective date of consolidation. The term of the first member so appointed shall expire at midnight on the last day of February in the year following the year in which he takes office; the term of the second member appointed shall expire one year later; and the term of the third member shall expire two years later. At a meeting to be held on the day its members take office, the electoral board for the consolidated county or city shall (i) designate one of the general registrars of the consolidating jurisdictions to serve as the general registrar of the consolidated county or city until midnight on March 31 following the effective date of consolidation and (ii) appoint pursuant to §§ [24.2-109](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-109/) and [24.2-115](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-115/) the officers of election for the consolidated county or city. At a meeting to be held in the first week of March following the effective date of consolidation, such electoral board shall appoint pursuant to §§ [24.2-109](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-109/) and [24.2-110](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-110/) a general registrar for the consolidated county or city who shall qualify and take office on April 1 following the effective date of consolidation and serve for the remainder of the term set forth in § [24.2-110](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-110/).

2. General Registrar. -- The general registrars of the consolidating jurisdictions shall continue in office, with one of them designated the general registrar for the consolidated county or city as hereinabove provided, until midnight on March 31 following the effective date of consolidation during which time they shall compile, on the schedule and in the manner prescribed by the State Board of Elections, the registration records for the consolidated county or city. The governing body of the consolidated county or city shall pay the salary of each such general registrar in the amount authorized by the State Board of Elections and shall be reimbursed for such compensation from the state treasury.

3. Officers of Election. -- The terms of the officers of election of the consolidating jurisdictions shall expire on the effective date of consolidation.

1986, c. 312, § 15.1-1141.2; 1997, c. 587.

