# ยง 15.2-807 Appointment of county officers and employees; federal employment, etc., not to disqualify; discussions with board.

The board shall appoint, upon the recommendation of the urban county executive, all officers and employees in the administration service of the county, except as the board authorizes the urban county executive to appoint heads of a department or office and except as the board authorizes the heads of a department or office to appoint subordinates in such department or office. However, in appointing the county school board no recommendation by the urban county executive is required. All appointments shall be on the basis of ability, training and experience of the appointees which are relevant to the work which they are to perform.

No person otherwise eligible, shall be disqualified by reason of his accepting or holding employment, an office, post, trust or emolument under the United States government, from serving as a member of any board, commission, authority, committee or agency whose members are appointed by the board.

The county clerk, the attorney for the Commonwealth and the sheriff shall be selected in the manner and for the terms, and vacancies in such offices shall be filled, as provided by general law.

The urban county executive shall have the right to take part in all discussions and to present his views on all matters coming before the board. The attorney for the Commonwealth and the sheriff shall be entitled to present their views on matters relating to their respective departments.

Code 1950, ยง 15-384.22; 1960, c. 382; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-734; 1968, c. 797; 1997, c. 587.

