# ยง 15.2-6015.1 Virginia Coalfields Expressway Authority; purpose.

The Virginia Coalfields Expressway Authority (the Authority) is established as a body politic and corporate, a political subdivision of the Commonwealth. The Authority shall have the powers and duties hereinafter conferred in this chapter.

The primary purpose of the Authority is to improve the transportation into, from, within, and through Southwest Virginia, assist in regional economic development, and generally enhance highway safety in the affected localities.

The Coalfields Expressway, designated as U.S. Route 121 and a Congressional High Priority Corridor, is a proposed four-lane, limited-access highway to provide a modern, safe, and efficient transportation artery through the coalfields region of far Southwest Virginia and southern West Virginia.

The proposed expressway is designed to provide safe and rapid access to communities along the corridor, with interchanges connecting citizens of Pound, Clintwood, Clinchco, Haysi, Breaks, Grundy, and Slate.

It is hereby further declared that the foregoing is a public purpose and use for which public moneys may be spent and such activity will serve a public purpose in providing jobs to the citizens of the Commonwealth.

The exercise of the powers granted by this chapter shall be in all respects for the benefit of the inhabitants of the Commonwealth, particularly the affected localities, for the increase of their commerce and for the promotion of their safety, health, welfare, convenience, and prosperity.

2017, c. [543](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0543).

