# § 15.2-1129.2 Creation of local economic revitalization zones.

A. Any city or town may establish by ordinance one or more economic revitalization zones for the purpose of providing incentives to private entities to purchase real property and interests in real property to assemble parcels suitable for economic development. Each city or town establishing an economic revitalization zone may grant incentives and provide regulatory flexibility. Such zones shall be reasonably compact, shall not encompass the entire city or town, and shall constitute one or more tax parcels not commonly owned. Properties that are acquired through the use of eminent domain shall not be eligible for the incentives and regulatory flexibility provided by the ordinance.

B. The incentives may include, but not be limited to: (i) reduction of permit fees, (ii) reduction of user fees, (iii) reduction of any type of gross receipts tax, and (iv) waiver of tax liens to facilitate the sale of property.

C. Incentives established pursuant to this section may extend for a period of up to 10 years from the date of initial establishment of the economic revitalization zone; however, the extent and duration of any incentive shall conform to the requirements of applicable federal and state law.

D. The regulatory flexibility provided in an economic revitalization zone may include (i) special zoning for the district, (ii) the use of a special permit process, (iii) exemption from certain specified ordinances, excluding ordinances or provisions of ordinances adopted pursuant to the requirements of the Chesapeake Bay Preservation Act (§ [62.1-44.15:67](/vacode/62.1-44.15:67/) et seq.), the Erosion and Sediment Control Law (§ [62.1-44.15:51](/vacode/62.1-44.15:51/) et seq.), and the Virginia Stormwater Management Act (§ [62.1-44.15:24](/vacode/62.1-44.15:24/) et seq.), and (iv) any other incentives adopted by ordinance, which shall be binding upon the locality for a period of up to 10 years.

E. The governing body may establish a service district for the provision of additional public services pursuant to Chapter 24 (§ [15.2-2400](/vacode/15.2-2400/) et seq.) of Title 15.2.

F. This section shall not authorize any local government powers that are not expressly granted herein.

G. Prior to adopting or amending any ordinance pursuant to this section, a locality shall provide for notice and public hearing in accordance with subsection A of § [15.2-2204](/vacode/15.2-2204/).

2007, c. [262](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0262); 2013, cc. [756](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0756), [793](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0793); 2019, c. [721](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0721).

