# ยง 15.2-6203 Board of Authority; members and officers; staff; annual report.

A. All powers, rights and duties conferred by this chapter, or other provisions of law, upon the Authority shall be exercised by the Board of the Alleghany-Highlands Economic Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as the Board or the Board of the Authority. Initial appointments shall begin July 1, 1993. The Board shall consist of seven members as follows: one representative of each of the region's governing bodies, or their designees, who shall be appointed by the respective governing bodies and shall be residents of the region; four at-large members, who shall be appointed by the Governor and shall be residents of the region; and one member to be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer of the Virginia Economic Development Partnership. However, all appointments made after July 1, 2005, shall be made solely by the participating governing bodies, in a manner agreed to by the governing bodies. All members shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed for one additional term. For the initial appointments only, two of the four at-large members shall be appointed for two-year terms and such initial terms shall not be counted toward the term limitation.

B. Each member of the Board shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, take and subscribe to the oath prescribed in ยง [49-1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/49-1/). Members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.

C. Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary for any action taken by the Board. No vacancy in the membership of the Board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Board.

D. The Board shall elect from its membership a chairman and a secretary-treasurer for each calendar year. The secretary-treasurer shall keep the minutes of the Board and affix the seal of the Authority.

The Board may also appoint an executive director and staff who shall discharge such functions as may be directed by the Board.

E. The Board, promptly following the close of the fiscal year, shall submit an annual report of the Authority's activities for the preceding year to the Governor, the General Assembly, and the board of supervisors and town council of the Region. Each such report shall set forth a complete operating and financial statement covering the operation of the Authority during such year.

1993, c. 982, ยง 15.1-1664; 1994, c. [448](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0448); 1996, cc. [590](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0590), [598](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0598); 1997, c. 587; 2005, c. [671](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0671); 2006, c. [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0861); 2010, c. [869](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0869).

