# ยง 15.2-7413 Fees, rents, and charges.

The Authority is hereby authorized to and shall fix, revise, charge, and collect fees, rents, and other charges for the use and services of any facilities or access site. Such fees, rents, and other charges shall be so fixed and adjusted as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the facilities and the principal and any interest on its bonds as the same shall become due and payable, including reserves therefor. Such fees, rents, and charges shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any commission, board, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth or any participating political subdivision. The fees, rents, and other charges received by the Authority, except such part thereof as may be necessary to pay the cost of maintenance, repair, and operation and to provide such reserves therefor as may be provided for in any resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in any trust indenture or agreement securing the same, shall to the extent necessary be set aside at such regular intervals as may be provided in any such resolution or trust indenture or agreement in a sinking fund or sinking funds pledged to, and charged with, the payment and the interest on such bonds as the same shall become due, and the redemption price or the purchase price of such bonds retired by call or purchase as therein provided. Such pledge shall be valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made. So long as any of its bonds are outstanding, the fees, rents, and charges so pledged and thereafter received by the Authority shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract, or otherwise against the Authority irrespective of whether such parties have notice thereof. Neither the resolution nor any trust indenture by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded except in the records of the Authority. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of any such sinking fund shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of such trust indenture or agreement.

2014, c. [471](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0471).

