# ยง 15.2-408 Attorney for the Commonwealth, county clerk, sheriff, commissioner of the revenue and treasurer of the county.

A. The attorney for the Commonwealth, the county clerk, the sheriff, the commissioner of the revenue and the treasurer of the county in office immediately prior to the day upon which the county board form becomes effective in the county shall continue, unless sooner removed, as attorney for the Commonwealth, county clerk, sheriff, commissioner of the revenue and treasurer, respectively, of the county until the expiration of their respective terms of office and until their successors have qualified. Thereafter, such officers shall be elected in such manner and for such terms as provided by general law.

B. When any vacancy occurs in any office named in subsection A, the vacancy shall be filled as provided by general law.

C. Each officer named in subsection A of this section may appoint such deputies, assistants and employees as he may require in the exercise of the powers conferred and in the performance of the duties imposed upon him by law.

D. Each officer, except the attorney for the Commonwealth, named in subsection A shall, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, exercise all the powers conferred and perform all the duties imposed upon such officer by general law. He shall be accountable to the board in all matters affecting the county and shall perform such duties, not inconsistent with his office, as the board directs.

Code 1950, ยง 15-371; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-706; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 158; 1977, c. 584; 1997, c. 587; 2003, c. [1015](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1015).

