# ยง 15.2-3243 Hearing and order upon such petition.

The special court shall fix a day on which the petition filed pursuant to ยง [15.2-3241](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3241/) shall be heard and shall direct the clerk of the court to cause to be summoned the chairman of the board of supervisors of the county and the mayor of the town, who without formal pleadings shall make such defense against the prayer of the petition as they may have. One or more residents or landowners of the territory proposed to be abandoned may appear and set forth reasons why the same should not be done.

If the court is satisfied that it will be in the best interest of a majority of the people of the territory proposed to be abandoned and that the general good of the community will not be materially affected, it shall by an order entered in its common-law order book, reciting the fact of the due publication of the petition, that it is in the best interest of a majority of the people of that part of the town proposed to be abandoned, and that the general good of the community will not be materially affected by amendment of the charter, order that the charter of such town be amended accordingly. Whenever such an order is entered, a copy of the order shall be certified to the Secretary of the Commonwealth.

The court in its order may make such disposition of the corporate property of the town as may seem to it just and equitable and shall also make such provision as to the payment of any debts or obligations of the town as between the county and the inhabitants of the town as to the court may seem just and equitable.

At the next session of the General Assembly following the final determination of such order, the town shall request that the General Assembly amend its charter in accordance with the court order. The effective date of the transfer of territory shall be the effective date of the court order and not the effective date of the Act of Assembly.

Code 1950, ยง 15-160; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-1066; 1970, c. 751; 1978, c. 642; 1997, c. 587.

