# ยง 15.2-5511 Directors; qualifications; terms; vacancies; compensation and expenses; quorum; records; certification and distribution of report concerning bond issuance.

The Authority shall be governed by a board of directors in which all powers of the Authority shall be vested. Directors shall be appointed initially for staggered terms of one, two, three and four years. Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of four years, except appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms. All terms of office shall be deemed to commence upon the date of the initial appointment to the Authority, and thereafter, in accordance with the provisions of the preceding sentence. If, at the end of any term of office of any director a successor thereto has not been appointed, then the director whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified. Each director shall, upon appointment or reappointment, before entering upon his duties take and subscribe the oath prescribed by ยง [49-1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/49-1/).

The directors shall elect from their membership a chairman, a vice-chairman, and from their membership or not, as they desire, a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, who shall continue to hold such office until their respective successors are elected. Subject to availability of funds, the directors shall receive no salary but the directors may be compensated such amount per regular, special, or committee meeting as may be approved by the appointing authority, not to exceed fifty dollars per meeting, and shall be reimbursed for necessary traveling and other expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. A majority of Authority members shall constitute a quorum of the board for the purposes of conducting its business and exercising its powers and for all other purposes. No vacancy in the membership of the board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Authority. The Authority shall keep detailed minutes of its proceedings, which shall be open to public inspection at all times. It shall keep suitable records of its financial transactions and, unless exempted by ยง [30-140](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-140/), it shall arrange to have the records audited annually. Copies of each such audit shall be furnished to the governing bodies of the participating localities and shall be open to public inspection.

2002, c. [791](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0791).

