# § 15.2-3107 Publication of agreed boundary line.

A. Before adopting an agreement pursuant to § [15.2-3106](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3106/), each governing body shall advertise its intention to approve such an agreement at least once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in its locality, and such notice shall include a descriptive summary of the proposed agreement. The summary shall describe the new boundary, but need not include a metes and bounds description. The publication shall include a statement that a copy of the agreement is on file in the office of the clerk of the governing body which is considering the proposed agreement. A joint publication of the proposed agreement by the localities which otherwise meets the requirements of this section shall satisfy this requirement. If joint publication is used, the publication costs shall be apportioned between the participating localities in the manner agreed upon by them. After providing the notice required by this section, each locality shall hold at least one public hearing on the agreement prior to its adoption.

B. Notice of any agreement as provided in subsection A hereof shall be served upon the affected property owners, if any, of the area affected by the agreement, and if the owners of at least one third of the affected parcels object to the change, they shall be permitted to intervene in the proceedings as prescribed in § [15.2-3108](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3108/) and show cause why the boundary line should not be changed. For purposes of this article "affected parcel" means a parcel of real property that is the subject of the boundary relocation or change, as shown on the current real estate tax assessment records. One notice sent by first class mail to the last known address of the owners of such parcels as shown on the current real estate tax assessment books or current real estate tax assessment records shall be deemed adequate compliance with this requirement, provided that a representative of each local governing body shall make affidavit that such mailings have been made and file such affidavit with the papers in the petition as prescribed in § [15.2-3108](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3108/). Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as to invalidate any subsequently adopted boundary line agreement because of the inadvertent failure by the representatives of the local governments to give written notice to the owner, owners, or their agent of any parcel involved.

1977, c. 277, § 15.1-1031.2; 1983, c. 594; 1993, c. 392; 1997, c. 587; 2014, c. [503](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0503).

