# § 15.2-3541 General effect of consolidation; officers.

Upon the effective date of consolidation, the localities so consolidated, other than the consolidated county or city or town, and other than townships as provided by § [15.2-3548](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3548/), shall terminate, as shall the terms of office and the rights, powers, duties and compensation of the officers, agents and employees of each such county, city or town. When such agreement provides for consolidation of the area into a county or city, or when such agreement provides for consolidation of the area into a county in which a tier-city will exist, then the judge or judges of the court or courts having jurisdiction within the area comprised by the consolidated county or city shall order an election to be held not less than thirty nor more than 185 days after the date upon which the referendum provided for in §§ [15.2-3538](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3538/), [15.2-3539](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3539/) and [15.2-3540](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3540/) was held, but at least thirty days before the effective date of such consolidation agreement, at which election officers for the new consolidated county or city, or for the new consolidated county and tier-city shall be elected.

The officers so elected shall take office upon the effective date of consolidation and shall serve until their successors have been elected, qualified and taken office. Their successors shall be elected at the next regular election time for such officers as provided for by general law.

No election required by this section or by § [15.2-3538](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3538/) shall be held on the day of a primary election nor within the sixty days prior to a general or primary election. Should the final day by which either such election must be held fall within the sixty days prior to a general election, the required election must be held on the same day as the general election. Should such final day fall within the sixty days prior to a primary election, the required election must be held not less than thirty nor more than forty-five days after the primary election.

Code 1950, § 15-227; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-1141; 1979, c. 85; 1984, c. 695; 1997, c. 587.

