# ยง 15.2-6403 Board of the authority.

A. All powers, rights and duties conferred by this chapter, or other provisions of law, upon an authority shall be exercised by a board of directors. A board shall consist of two members for each member locality. The governing body of each member locality shall appoint two members to the board. Any person who is a resident of the Commonwealth may be appointed to the board. However, if an authority has only two member localities, the governing body of each locality may appoint three members each. However, in any instance in which the member localities are not equally contributing funding to the authority, and upon agreement by each member locality, the number of appointments to be made by each locality may be based upon the percentage of local funds contributed by each of the member localities. Each member of a board shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed for as many terms as the governing body desires. However, the board may elect to provide for staggered terms, in which case some members may draw an initial two-year term. If a vacancy occurs by reason of the death, disqualification or resignation of a board member, the governing body of the member locality that appointed the authority board member shall appoint a successor to fill the unexpired term.

However, with regard to any authority created by Planning Districts 10, 11, and 12, only members of the appointing governing body of each member locality shall be appointed to the board. In the event such board members feel it is necessary to have an odd number of members, they may establish a rotation system that will allow one locality to appoint one extra member to serve for up to two years. Each locality will, in turn, appoint such extra member. Once the cycle is completed, the rotation shall be repeated.

Each member locality may appoint up to two alternate board members. Alternates shall be selected in the same manner as board members, and may serve as an alternate for either board member from the member locality that appoints the alternate. Alternates shall be appointed for terms that coincide with one or more of the board members from the member locality that appoints the alternate. If a board member is not present at a meeting of the authority, the alternate shall have all the voting and other rights of the board member not present and shall be counted for purposes of determining a quorum. Alternates are required to take an oath of office and are entitled to reimbursement for expenses in the same manner as board members.

B. Each member of a board shall, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, take and subscribe to the oath prescribed in ยง [49-1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/49-1/). Members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties from funds available to the authority.

C. A quorum shall exist when a majority of the member localities are represented by at least one member of the board. The affirmative vote of a quorum of the board shall be necessary for any action taken by the board. No vacancy in the membership of a board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the board. The board shall determine the times and places of its regular meetings, which may be adjourned or continued, without further public notice, from day to day or from time to time or from place to place, but not beyond the time fixed for the next regular meeting, until the business before the board is completed. Special meetings of a board shall be held when requested by members of the board representing two or more localities. Any such request for a special meeting shall be in writing, and the request shall specify the time and place of the meeting and the matters to be considered at the meeting. A reasonable effort shall be made to provide each member with notice of any special meeting. No matter not specified in the notice shall be considered at such special meeting unless all the members of the board are present. Special meetings may be adjourned or continued, without further public notice, from day to day or from time to time or from place to place, not beyond the time fixed for the next regular meeting, until the business before the board is completed.

D. Each board shall elect from its membership a chairman for each calendar year. The board may also appoint an executive director and staff who shall discharge such functions as may be directed by the board. The executive director and staff shall be paid from funds received by the authority.

E. Each board, promptly following the close of the fiscal year, shall submit an annual report of the authority's activities of the preceding year to the governing body of each member locality. Each such report shall set forth a complete operating and financial statement covering the operation of the authority during such year.

1997, cc. [276](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0276), 587, ยง 15.1-1713; 1999, cc. [820](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0820), [882](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0882); 2000, c. [892](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0892); 2001, cc. [7](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0007), [15](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0015), [390](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0390), [391](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0391); 2002, c. [691](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0691); 2006, c. [758](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0758); 2014, c. [728](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0728).

