# ยง 15.2-5358 Fees, rents and charges for use of project and facilities; sinking fund.

The authority is hereby authorized to fix, revise, charge and collect fees, rents and other charges for the use of any project and the facilities thereof. Such fees, rents and other charges shall be so fixed and adjusted as to provide, together with other revenues determined by the authority to be available, a fund sufficient to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the project, the principal of and interest on such bonds as they become due and payable and the amounts necessary to create and maintain reserves for such purposes and for other purposes of the authority. Such fees, rents and charges shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any locality or by any commission, board, bureau or agency of any of the foregoing. The authority may provide in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, or in the trust indenture securing the same, for setting aside any part or all of the fees, rents and other charges received by it in a sinking or other similar fund which is hereby pledged to, and charged with, the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds, as they become due, and the redemption price or the purchase price of such bonds retired by call or purchase as therein provided. Such pledge shall be valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made. The fees, rents and charges so pledged and thereafter received by the authority shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract or otherwise against the authority, irrespective of whether such parties have notice thereof. Neither the resolution nor trust indenture need be filed or recorded except in the records of the authority. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of a sinking or other similar fund shall be subject to the provisions of such resolution or trust indenture. Except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or trust indenture, the sinking or other similar fund shall be a fund for all such bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.

Code 1950, ยง 32-271.2; 1973, c. 462, ยง 15.1-1593; 1979, c. 719; 1997, c. 587.

