# ยง 15.2-5609 Trust indenture or agreement to secure payment of bonds.

In the discretion of the authority, any bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter may be secured by a trust indenture by way of conveyance, deed of trust or mortgage of any project or any other property of the authority, whether or not financed in whole or in part from the proceeds of such bonds, or by a trust agreement by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside the Commonwealth or by both such conveyance, deed of trust or mortgage and indenture or trust agreement. Such trust indenture or agreement, or the resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds may pledge or assign fees, rents, charges and receipts, collected by, payable to or otherwise derived by the authority, and all other moneys and income of whatever kind or character collected by, payable to or otherwise derived from any project. Such trust indenture or agreement, or resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds, may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders as may be reasonable and proper and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property and the construction, improvement, maintenance, repair, operation and issuance of any project or other property of the authority, and the rates of fees, rents and other charges to be charged, and the custody, safeguarding and application of all moneys of the authority, and conditions or limitations with respect to the issuance of additional bonds. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth which may act as depository of the proceeds of such bonds or of other revenues of the authority to furnish indemnifying bonds or to pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such trust indenture or agreement or resolution may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee, and may restrict the individual right of action by bondholders.

In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture or agreement or resolution may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out the provisions of such trust indenture or agreement or resolution may be treated as a part of the cost of a project.

Code 1950, ยง 15-714.22; 1962, c. 393, ยง 10, ยง 15.1-1280; 1973, c. 238; 1997, c. 587.

