# ยง 15.2-3234 Inability to agree; petition to Commission on Local Government.

In the event the governing bodies of the town and county cannot reach a voluntary agreement as to future annexation rights, the town may, by ordinance duly adopted by a majority vote of its governing body, petition the Commission on Local Government for an order establishing the rights of the town to annex territory by ordinance under specified agreed terms. A copy of such petition and ordinance shall be served on the attorney for the Commonwealth, or county attorney, if there is one, and on the chairman of the board of supervisors of the county. The county shall file its response to such petition with the Commission within sixty days after receipt of service thereof.

After the time for filing of a response by the county has elapsed, the Commission shall establish a date, time and place for a hearing, to be conducted in the county or the town, at which the parties, and any resident or property owner of either the county or the town may appear and present evidence or comment on the rights petitioned for by the town. After receiving such evidence, and making such further investigation as it deems appropriate, and based upon the criteria set forth in ยง [15.2-3209](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-3209/), the Commission shall enter an order which grants such rights to the town, either upon the terms set forth in the petition or upon some modified basis. The order shall in no event grant to the town the right to annex county territory by ordinance more frequently than once every five years.

1979, c. 85, ยง 15.1-1058.4; 1997, c. 587.

