# ยง 15.2-2407 Assessments to be reported to collector of taxes; postponement of payment by certain property owners.

The amount assessed against each landowner, or for which he is liable by agreement, shall be reported as soon as practicable to the collector of taxes, who shall enter the same as provided for other taxes.

The governing body may provide for the postponement of the payment of such assessment by certain elderly or permanently and totally disabled property owners meeting certain conditions until the sale of the property or the death of the last eligible owner. Eligibility for postponement shall be subject to the conditions set forth in ยง [58.1-3211](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3211/) as in effect on December 31, 2010, for such elderly or permanently and totally disabled persons. The governing body may provide for the postponement of the payment of such assessment until the property owner actually connects to the public utility system. However, if the property is conveyed between the time the assessment is made and the time the property owner actually connects to the public utility system, then the entire amount due under the assessment becomes due and payable on the day of the conveyance. In any event, the entire amount of assessment due shall be paid no later than ten years from the creation of the district.

The collector of taxes shall enter those assessments postponed by the governing body in accordance with the conditions prescribed as provided for other taxes, but the eligible property owner shall have the option of payment or postponement.

Code 1950, ยง 15-672; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-242; 1973, c. 211; 1978, c. 711; 1980, c. 726; 1996, c. [222](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0222); 1997, c. 587; 2011, cc. [438](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0438), [496](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0496).

