# ยง 15.2-2901 Membership; appointment, terms and qualifications of members; vacancies; Executive Director.

The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Governor subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The members' terms of office shall be for five years except that original appointments shall be made for such terms that the term of one member shall expire each year. Members initially appointed shall take office on January 1, 1980; thereafter, the members appointed for regular terms shall take office at the beginning of the term for which appointed and those appointed to fill vacancies shall take office immediately upon their appointment. Members shall be eligible for reappointment.

Each member shall, at the time of appointment and during his term of office, be a qualified voter under the Constitution and laws of the Commonwealth and shall further be a person qualified by knowledge and experience in local government. No member of the Commission shall hold any other elective or appointive public office. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no person shall be disqualified from membership on the Commission by virtue of any employment held by him with the United States or a public institution of higher education.

Any vacancy in the membership of the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.

The Director of the Department of Housing and Community Development shall also serve as the Executive Director of the Commission, who shall employ such personnel as may be required to carry out the purposes of this chapter. The Executive Director shall also (i) make and enter into contracts as necessary or incidental to the performance of the Commission's duties; (ii) accept grants from the United States or other sources; (iii) exercise supervision of the administration of Commission affairs; and (iv) prepare and submit a budget to the Governor as requested.

1979, c. 85, ยง 15.1-945.2; 1980, c. 728; 1984, c. 444; 1985, c. 397; 1997, c. [587](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587); 2003, c. [197](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0197).

