# § 15.2-1627.1 Salaries of attorneys for the Commonwealth and assistants.

A. The annual salaries of attorneys for the Commonwealth shall be as prescribed in the general appropriation act, except as otherwise provided in § [15.2-1636.12](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1636.12/).

In cities and counties having a population of more than 35,000 inhabitants, the Compensation Board, in determining the salary for the assistants to the attorney for the Commonwealth, shall consider the provisions of §§ [15.2-1628](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1628/) and [15.2-1630](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1630/) requiring that such attorneys serve on a full-time basis, and shall also consider the amount of the salaries paid to the assistants to the city or county attorney of such city or county.

These same factors shall also be considered in determining the salary for assistants to the attorney for the Commonwealth in cities having a population of more than 17,000 inhabitants, and less than 35,000 inhabitants when the council for such city and the Compensation Board shall concur that the attorney for the Commonwealth and all assistant attorneys for the Commonwealth shall devote full time to their duties, and shall not engage in the private practice of law.

Any city served by a full-time attorney for the Commonwealth on January 1, 1993, under the provisions hereof shall continue to be served by a full-time attorney for the Commonwealth in the event the population of such city shall have fallen below the 17,000 population threshold in the most recent U.S. census and shall be administered in the same manner as cities with populations in excess of 17,000 but of 35,000 or less. In such jurisdictions, the attorney for the Commonwealth and his assistant attorneys and their successors in office shall be subject to the requirements regarding full-time service and part-time private practice as in effect for such positions on January 1, 1993. No further action by the council of the city or the Compensation Board shall be necessary.

B. Each assistant attorney for the Commonwealth authorized by law, if his services shall be deemed necessary by the Compensation Board, shall receive an annual salary which shall not exceed ninety percent of the salary received by the attorney for the Commonwealth of his county or city. However, after January 1, 1980, in cities having a population of more than 35,000 inhabitants, the Compensation Board shall not provide any compensation for any assistant attorney for the Commonwealth when the attorney for the Commonwealth for any such city does not serve on a full-time basis or engages in the practice of law outside of his duties as attorney for the Commonwealth.

Code 1950, § 14-66; 1950, p. 637; 1952, c. 566; 1954, cc. 648, 662; 1956, c. 630; 1964, c. 386, § 14.1-53; 1966, c. 279; 1970, c. 551; 1972, c. 215; 1973, c. 126; 1974, c. 429; 1976, c. 689; 1977, c. 623; 1980, c. 588; 1981, c. 415; 1983, c. 600; 1989, c. 293; 1993, cc. 446, 620; 1998, c. [872](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872).

