# § 15.2-1500.1 Employment discrimination prohibited; sexual orientation or gender identity.

A. As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Age" means being an individual who is at least 40 years of age.

"Military status" means status as (i) a member of the uniformed forces, as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101(a)(5), of the United States or a reserve component thereof named under 10 U.S.C. § 10101, (ii) a veteran as defined in 38 U.S.C. § 101(2), or (iii) a dependent as defined in 50 U.S.C. § 3911(4) except that the support provided by the service member to the individual shall have been provided 180 days immediately preceding an alleged action that if proven true would constitute unlawful discrimination under this section instead of 180 days immediately preceding an application for relief under 50 U.S.C. Chapter 50.

"Religion" includes any outward expression of religious faith, including adherence to religious dressing and grooming practices and the carrying or display of religious items or symbols.

B. No department, office, board, commission, agency, or instrumentality of local government shall discriminate in employment on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or military status.

C. The provisions of this section shall not prohibit (i) discrimination in employment on the basis of sex or age in those instances when sex or age is a bona fide occupational qualification for employment or (ii) providing preference in employment to veterans.

2020, cc. [1137](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1137), [1140](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1140); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [477](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0477), [478](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0478); 2022, c. [799](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0799).

