# ยง 15.2-2413.7 Amendment to the tourism improvement district plan.

A. At any time after the establishment or extension of a tourism improvement district pursuant to the provisions of this article, the tourism improvement district plan upon which the establishment or extension was based, may, upon the recommendation of the administering nonprofit, be amended by the locality after compliance with the procedures set forth in this section.

B. Amendments to the tourism improvement district plan that provide for changes to the boundaries of the tourism improvement district or any change in the method of determining fees upon which the business fee is based may be adopted by ordinance, provided that the locality shall, after a public hearing, determine that it is in the public interest to authorize the changes to the boundaries of the tourism improvement district or the changes to the method of determining fees. The locality shall give notice of the hearing by publication of a notice on the locality's website or in at least one newspaper having general circulation in the tourism improvement district specifying the time when and the place where the hearing will be held and stating any changes to the boundaries of the tourism improvement district, or any change in the method of determining fees upon which the business fee is based. The notice shall be published at least 10 days prior to the date specified for the hearing.

C. Amendments to the tourism improvement district plan that provide for the tourism improvement district to incur indebtedness in order to provide for additional activities, that provide for an increase only in the amount to be expended annually for activities, or that provide for an increase in the total maximum amount to be expended for activities in the tourism improvement district may be adopted by ordinance. Prior to the adoption of an ordinance making one or more of the amendments as described in this subsection, the governing body shall, after a public hearing, determine that it is in the public interest to authorize the tourism improvement district to incur indebtedness to provide for additional activities, to increase the amount to be expended annually, or to increase the total maximum amount to be expended for activities in the tourism improvement district, or any applicable combination of the foregoing. Notice of the hearing shall be published and mailed in the manner provided in ยง [15.2-2413.4](/vacode/15.2-2413.4/).

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [500](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0500).

