# § 15.2-2642 School district bonds.

The governing body of any county, acting for and on behalf of any school district in the county, or acting for and on behalf of two or more school districts jointly, may provide for the issuance of general obligation bonds of the school district or districts for school purposes. Where voter approval is required by the Constitution of Virginia or the provisions of this chapter, the bonds shall not be issued unless a majority of the voters of the district voting in the election held pursuant to §§ [15.2-2610](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2610/) and [15.2-2611](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-2611/) on the question in the district, or in each of the districts separately, approve the contracting of the debt and the issuing of the bonds. The bonds of two or more school districts shall be issued as joint obligations of such school districts. Any school district, or any school districts jointly, shall constitute a locality. For the purpose of this section, each magisterial district in each county shall constitute a school district, but any such school district shall not include a town constituting a separate school district. In any county where an incorporated town constitutes both a school district and an entire magisterial district, the remaining magisterial districts shall, upon the adoption of resolutions by the governing body and the school board, constitute a single school district which may thereafter issue general obligation bonds for school purposes after approval by a majority of all the voters of the district voting in an election on the question. The issuance of the bonds shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter.

Code 1950, § 15-666.32:1; 1958, c. 640; 1962, cc. 76, 623, § 15.1-190; 1964, c. 133; 1968, c. 611; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 224; 1991, c. 668, § 15.1-227.43; 1997, c. 587.

