# ยง 15.2-4205 Powers of commission generally.

A. Upon organization of a planning district commission, pursuant to charter agreement, it shall be a public body corporate and politic, the purposes of which shall be to perform the planning and other functions provided by this chapter, and it shall have the power to perform such functions and all other powers incidental thereto.

B. Without in any manner limiting or restricting the general powers conferred by this chapter, the planning district commission may:

1. Adopt and have a common seal and to alter the same at pleasure.

2. Sue and be sued.

3. Adopt bylaws and make rules and regulations for the conduct of its business; however, a planning district commission shall not amend its budget once adopted during the applicable fiscal year except pursuant to an affirmative vote of the same number of the entire membership of the planning district commission required to adopt the budget.

4. Make and enter into all contracts or agreements, as it may determine, which are necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties and to the execution of the powers granted under this chapter.

5. Apply for and accept, disburse and administer, for itself or for member localities so requesting, loans and grants of money or materials or property at any time from any private or charitable source or the United States of America or the Commonwealth, or any agency or instrumentality thereof.

6. Exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations, including the right to expend such funds as may be considered by it to be advisable or necessary in the performance of its duties and functions.

7. Employ engineers, attorneys, planners, such other professional experts and consultants and such general and clerical employees as may be deemed necessary, and prescribe their powers and duties and fix their compensation.

8. Do and perform any acts and things authorized by this chapter through or by means of its own officers, agents and employees, or by contracts with any persons.

9. Execute instruments and do and perform acts or things necessary, convenient or desirable for its purposes or to carry out the powers expressly given in this chapter.

10. Create an executive committee which may exercise the powers and authority of the planning district commission under this chapter. The chairman of the planning district commission shall serve as a member and as the chairman of the executive committee. The composition of the remaining membership of the executive committee, the term of office of its members and any alternate members, their method of selection or removal, the voting rights of members, procedures for the conduct of its meetings, and any limitations upon the general authority of the executive committee shall be established by the bylaws of the planning district commission. Any planning district commission may establish such other special and standing committees, advisory, technical, or otherwise, as it deems desirable for the transaction of its affairs.

1968, c. 224, ยง 15.1-1404; 1975, c. 83; 1986, c. 164; 1990, c. 722; 1995, cc. [732](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0732), [796](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0796); 1997, c. 587.

