# ยง 15.2-403 Same; powers and duties.

A. The board shall be the policy-determining body of the county and shall be vested with all the rights and powers conferred on boards of supervisors by general law, not inconsistent with the form of county organization and government herein provided.

B. The board may require of all departments, divisions, agencies and officers of the county and of the several districts of the county such annual reports and other reports as in its opinion the business of the county requires.

C. The board may inquire into the official conduct of any office or officer, whether elective or appointive, of the county or of any district thereof, and to investigate the accounts, receipts, disbursements and expenses of any county or district officer. For these purposes it may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and require the production of books, papers and other evidence. If any witness fails or refuses to obey any such lawful order of the board he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.

D. The board shall, as soon as the county board form of county organization and government takes effect in the county, provide for the performance of all the governmental functions of the county in a manner consistent with this chapter.

E. Whenever it is not designated herein what officer or employee of the county shall exercise any power or perform any duty conferred upon or required of the county, or any officer thereof, by general law, then any such power shall be exercised or duty performed by that officer or employee of the county so designated by ordinance or resolution of the board.

Code 1950, ยง 15-366; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-701; 1997, c. 587.

