# ยง 15.2-5518 Directors; qualifications; terms; vacancies; compensation and expenses; quorum; records.

A. The authority shall be governed by a board of directors in which all powers of the authority shall be vested and which board shall be composed of seven directors, appointed by the governing body of the locality. If the authority is created by two or more localities, the members of the board shall be appointed as agreed upon by the localities. The seven directors shall be appointed initially for terms of one, two, three and four years; two being appointed for one-year terms; two being appointed for two-year terms; two being appointed for three-year terms; and one being appointed for a four-year term. Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of four years, except appointments to fill vacancies, which shall be for the unexpired terms. All terms of office shall be deemed to commence upon the date of the initial appointment to the authority and thereafter, in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence. If at the end of any term of office of any director a successor thereto has not been appointed, then the director whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified.

B. Each director shall, upon appointment or reappointment, before entering upon his duties take and subscribe the oath prescribed by ยง [49-1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/49-1/).

C. Four members of the board of directors shall constitute a quorum of the board for the purposes of conducting its business and exercising its powers and for all other purposes, except that no facilities owned by the authority shall be leased or disposed of in any manner without a majority vote of the members of the board of directors. No vacancy in the membership of the board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the board.

D. The board shall keep detailed minutes of its proceedings, which shall be open to public inspection at all times. It shall keep suitable records of its financial transactions and, unless exempted by ยง [30-140](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-140/), it shall arrange to have the records audited annually. Copies of each such audit shall be furnished to the governing body of the locality and shall be open to public inspection.

2007, c. [864](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0864).

