# ยง 15.2-3210 Boundary line where territory fronts on river, bay, etc.

A. In any proceeding under the provisions of this chapter to annex territory, when such territory fronts on a river or creek, the petition may ask that the boundary line be established along the centerline of such river or creek. If any territory is awarded in such proceeding that borders on a river or creek, the decision may order that the boundary line be the centerline of the river or creek that flows beside such territory.

B. If the territory sought to be annexed fronts on a bay, lake or similar type body of water, the boundary line shall be by metes and bounds in such bay, lake or similar type body of water. If a river or creek flows into such bay, lake or similar type body of water and such river or creek fronts all or a portion of the territory sought to be annexed, the metes and bounds shall run only to the point where such river or creek enters the bay, lake or similar type body of water and thereafter the centerline of the river or creek may be the boundary line to the extent applicable.

C. For purposes of this article, if any city is bisected by a river or any branch thereof then such river or branch shall lie within the boundaries of such city to the extent that there are portions of such city on both opposite shores of such river or branch.

D. For purposes of this article, if any river in the Commonwealth is bordered on both sides by cities of a population of 100,000 or more, according to the 1970 census, to the extent that such cities' borders along the river are in opposition, including the border across any branch as provided in subsection C, the boundaries of such cities shall be the centerline of the river and such cities shall be contiguous one to the other, notwithstanding any judicial decree to the contrary entered prior to 1976. Nothing in this subsection shall apply to that body of water known as Hampton Roads, located between Norfolk, Portsmouth and Suffolk on the south and Newport News and Hampton on the north.

1976, c. 662, ยง 15.1-1041.1; 1997, c. 587.

