# ยง 15.2-4906 Public hearing and approval.

A. Whenever federal law requires public hearings and public approval as a prerequisite to obtaining federal tax exemption for the interest paid on industrial development bonds, unless otherwise specified by federal law or regulation, the public hearing shall be conducted by the authority and the procedure for the public hearing and public approval shall be in accordance with this section.

B. For a public hearing by the authority, notice of the hearing shall be published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the locality in which the facility to be financed is to be located of intention to provide financing for a named individual or business entity. The applicant shall pay the cost of publication. The notice shall specify the time and place of hearing at which persons may appear and present their views. The hearing shall be held not less than six days nor more than twenty-one days after the second notice shall appear in such newspaper.

The notice shall contain: (i) the name and address of the authority; (ii) the name and address (principal place of business, if any) of the party seeking financing; (iii) the maximum dollar amount of financing sought; and (iv) the type of business and purpose and specific location, if known, of the facility to be financed.

If after the hearing has been held the authority approves the financing, a reasonably detailed summary of the comments expressed at the hearing shall be conveyed promptly to the locality's governing body together with the recommendation of the authority.

C. For public approval, the governing body of the locality on behalf of which the bonds of the authority are issued shall within sixty calendar days from the public hearing held by the authority either approve or disapprove financing of any facility recommended by the authority.

Action of the governing body shall be by a majority of a quorum set out in a resolution. Such vote shall be recorded and disclose how each member voted.

In case of a joint authority the approval required by the governing body of the locality shall be that governing body of the area where the facility will be located, if permitted by federal law or regulation.

The provisions of this section shall not apply to bonds, notes or other obligations issued pursuant to hearings held and governmental approvals obtained prior to the effective date of this act in compliance with federal law or regulation.

1983, c. 514, ยง 15.1-1378.1; 1997, c. 587.

