# ยง 15.2-4311 Review of districts.

The local governing body may complete a review of any district created under this section, together with additions to such district, no less than four years but no more than ten years after the date of its creation and every four to ten years thereafter. If the local governing body determines that a review is necessary, it shall begin such review at least ninety days before the expiration date of the period established when the district was created. In conducting such review, the local governing body shall ask for the recommendations of the local advisory committee and the planning commission in order to determine whether to terminate, modify or continue the district. When each district is reviewed, land within the district may be withdrawn at the owner's discretion by filing a written notice with the local governing body at any time before it acts to continue, modify or terminate the district. The local planning commission or the advisory committee shall schedule as part of the review a public meeting with the owners of land within the district, and shall send by first-class mail a written notice of the meeting and review to all such owners. The notice shall state the time and place for the meeting; that the district is being reviewed by the local governing body; that the local governing body may continue, modify, or terminate the district; and that land may be withdrawn from the district at the owner's discretion by filing a written notice with the local governing body at any time before it acts to continue, modify or terminate the district. The local governing body shall hold a public hearing as provided by law. The governing body may stipulate conditions to continuation of the district and may establish a period before the next review of the district, which may be different from the conditions or period established when the district was created. Any such different conditions or period shall be described in a notice sent by first-class mail to all owners of land within the district and published in a newspaper having a general circulation within the district at least two weeks prior to adoption of the ordinance continuing the district. Unless the district is modified or terminated by the local governing body, the district shall continue as originally constituted, with the same conditions and period before the next review as that established when the district was created.

If the local governing body determines that a review is unnecessary, it shall set the year in which the next review shall occur.

1977, c. 681, ยง 15.1-1511; 1979, c. 377; 1981, c. 546; 1984, c. 20; 1985, c. 13; 1987, c. 552; 1993, cc. 745, 761; 1997, c. 587.

