# ยง 15.2-829 Same; powers of county treasurer; deposit of moneys.

A. The director of finance shall also exercise the powers conferred and perform all the duties imposed by general law upon county treasurers, and shall be subject to the obligations and penalties imposed by general law. All moneys received by any county officer or employee for or in connection with the business of the county shall be paid promptly into the hands of the director of finance. All such money shall be promptly deposited by the director of finance to the credit of the county in such banks or trust companies as the board selects. No money shall be disbursed or paid out by the county except upon check signed by the chairman of the board, or other person the board designates, and countersigned by the director of the department of finance or by an electronic fund wire or payment system, or by any means deemed appropriate and sound by the director of finance and approved by the board drawn upon a warrant issued by the board. If any money is knowingly paid otherwise than upon the director of finance's check, electronic fund wire or payment system or by alternative means specifically approved by the director of finance and the urban county board of supervisors, drawn upon such warrant, this payment shall be invalid against the county.

B. The board may designate one or more banks or trust companies as a receiving or collecting agency under the direction of the department of finance. All funds so collected or received shall be deposited to the credit of the county in such banks or trust companies as the board selects.

C. Every bank or trust company serving as a depository or as a receiving or collecting agency for county funds shall be required by the board to give adequate security therefor, and to meet such interest requirements as the board establishes by ordinance or resolution. All interest on money so deposited shall accrue to the county's benefit. The director of finance or his authorized deputies may transfer funds from one such depository to another by wire.

Code 1950, ยง 15-384.53; 1960, c. 382; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-766; 1972, c. 456; 1982, c. 647; 1987, c. 419; 1997, c. 587.

