# ยง 15.2-1414 Governing bodies may have a legal enumeration of the population.

Any locality wishing to have a legal enumeration of the population of the locality, or part thereof, may make application therefor to the circuit court for the locality. When the application is made, the judge shall forthwith divide the locality, or part thereof, into such districts, with well-defined boundaries, as may appear advisable and shall appoint for each of the districts one enumerator. Before entering on their duties, such appointees shall take an oath before a notary public or other officer qualified to administer oaths under the laws of this Commonwealth, for the faithful discharge of their duties. The enumerators shall at once proceed to enumerate the actual bona fide inhabitants of their respective districts. They shall report to the judge the result of their enumeration and a list of the persons enumerated by them within a reasonable time after their appointment, and a copy of the list of persons so enumerated by them shall be furnished by the enumerators to the clerk of the court, who shall receive the list and keep it open to public inspection. Upon evidence produced before him, the judge may add to the list the name of any person improperly omitted and may strike from the list the name of any person improperly listed. If it appears advisable to the judge, he may order that the enumeration for any or all of the districts be retaken under all the provisions of this section by other enumerators, who shall be forthwith appointed by him. The judge shall cause to be tabulated and consolidated the lists and return to the governing body the results thereof, in accordance with the application of the governing body. The judge shall allow each enumerator a reasonable fee for each day actually employed by him in making the enumeration. He shall certify the allowance and costs to the governing body for payment out of the local treasury, and the allowance shall be a legal charge upon the governmental unit requesting the enumeration.

Code 1950, ยง 15-19; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-17; 1997, c. 587.

