# § 15.2-1637 Sharing of offices; transfer of jurisdiction.

A. Any attorney for the Commonwealth, clerk of a circuit court, or sheriff who performed his duties and had jurisdiction in both a city and a county prior to July 1, 1971, as provided for in Article VII, Section 4 of the Constitution of Virginia, shall continue to serve both political subdivisions until the city is transferred in accordance with the provisions of §§ [16.1-69.6](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-69.6/) and [17.1-506](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/17.1-506/) to a judicial circuit and district which is comprised of a county other than the circuit and district where the city was situated. Until such transfer is made, the voters residing in the city shall be entitled to vote for these officers at the general election for county officers.

B. Upon the effective date of the transfer referred to in subsection A of this section, the city shall have appointed for it by the judges of the circuit court for the county in the judicial circuit to which the city was transferred an attorney for the Commonwealth, clerk of the circuit court and sheriff, which constitutional officers shall be those of the adjoining county. In cases where the city has an elected sheriff, such sheriff shall be the only sheriff for the city. The city may contract with the county to which it was transferred for jail facilities.

In any case where the effective date of the transfer is to take place within 120 days after an election for any of these officers in the county to which the city is transferred, the voters of the city shall be entitled to vote in that election for each officer. The voting wards or precincts of the city shall be treated as precincts of the adjoining county, and no candidate for these offices shall be required to qualify separately in the city. The voters of the city shall thereafter be entitled to vote for these officers.

C. In order to complete the transfer of the jurisdiction of the respective circuit courts when the situation in subsection A occurs, the following shall control:

1. As to any crime occurring or civil cause of action arising in the city before the effective date of the transfer, the circuit court of the former judicial circuit shall have jurisdiction.

2. As to any crime occurring or civil cause of action arising in the city on or after the effective date of the transfer involving a matter required by general law to be located in a circuit court, the circuit court of the judicial circuit to which the city was transferred shall have jurisdiction.

D. All writings authorized by law to be recorded in the circuit court for the city transferred pursuant to subsection A of this section shall be recorded in the circuit court to which the city was transferred beginning on the effective date of the transfer.

1980, c. 592, § 15.1-994.1; 1987, c. 624; 1997, c. 587.

