# ยง 15.2-3217 Court granting annexation to exist for 10 years.

The special court shall not be dissolved after rendering a decision granting any motion or petition for annexation, but shall remain in existence for a period of 10 years from the effective date of any annexation order entered, or from the date of any decision of the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeals affirming such an order. Vacancies occurring in the court during such 10-year period shall be filled as provided in ยง [15.2-3004](/vacode/15.2-3004/).

The court may be reconvened at any time during the 10-year period on its own motion, or on motion of the governing body of the county, or of the city or town, or on petition of not less than 50 registered voters or property owners in the area annexed; however, if the area annexed contains fewer than 100 registered voters or property owners, a majority of such registered voters or property owners may petition for the reconvening of the court.

The court shall have power and it shall be its duty, at any time during such period, to enforce the performance of the terms and conditions under which annexation was granted, and to issue appropriate process to compel such performance. The court may, in its discretion, award attorney fees, and court and other reasonable costs to the party or parties on whose motion the court is reconvened.

Any such action of the court shall be subject to review by the Court of Appeals in the same manner as is provided with respect to the original decision of the court.

Code 1950, ยง 15-152.17; 1952, c. 328; 1962, c. 623, ยง 15.1-1047; 1979, c. 85; 1997, c. [587](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [489](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0489).

