# § 15.2-837 Department of education.

The department of education shall consist of the county school board, the division superintendent of schools and the officers and employees thereof. Except as herein otherwise provided, the county school board and the division superintendent of schools shall exercise the powers conferred and perform the duties imposed upon them by general law. In addition the parks and playgrounds shall be under the supervision and control of the department of education unless otherwise provided by the urban county board of supervisors. The county school board shall be composed of not less than five nor more than twelve members, who shall be chosen by the urban county board of supervisors to serve for a term of two years, except that as many as one half of the members of the first such board appointed may be appointed for lesser terms. The exact number of members shall be determined by the urban county board of supervisors. The term of office for any member appointed after July 1, 1972, shall expire on July 1 of the second year after his appointment.

The board of county supervisors may also appoint a county resident to cast the deciding vote in case of a tie vote of the school board as provided in § [22.1-75](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-75/). The tie breaker, if any, shall be appointed for a four-year term whether appointed to fill a vacancy caused by expiration of a term or otherwise.

The chairman of the county school board, unless some other person in the department is designated by the school board for such purpose, may appear before the urban county board of supervisors and present his views on matters relating to the department of education.

Notwithstanding any contrary provisions of this section, a county which has an elected school board shall comply with the applicable provisions of Article 7 (§ [22.1-57.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-57.1/) et seq.) of Title 22.1.

Code 1950, § 15-384.57; 1960, c. 382; 1962, c. 623, § 15.1-770; 1968, c. 797; 1972, c. 162; 1980, c. 559; 1981, c. 246; 1994, c. [445](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0445); 1997, c. 587.

