# ยง 15.2-5002 Allocation of state ceiling for 2008 and beyond.

This section shall apply to all private activity bonds issued by issuing authorities during 2008 and in years subsequent to 2008. The state ceiling for these calendar years shall be allocated as follows:

1. "Housing." For calendar years 2008 and beyond, an amount equal to 57 percent of the Virginia state ceiling on private activity bonds shall be set aside for single family and multifamily housing bonds. The housing portion of the state ceiling shall be divided between local housing authorities and the Virginia Housing Development Authority. The bond authority allocated to these issuers shall be distributed as follows:



|  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| a | Issuer | Portion of State Ceiling |
| b | Local Housing Authorities | 14% |
| c | Virginia Housing Development Authority | 43% |
| d | Total Housing Allocation | 57% |

2. "Industrial Development." For calendar years 2008 and beyond, an amount equal to 25 percent of the Virginia state ceiling on private activity bonds shall be set aside for the issuance of industrial development bonds for manufacturing and exempt facilities; provided, however, that in the event that on July 1, 2008, the amount of private activity bonds allocated since January 1, 2008, for manufacturing and exempt facilities pursuant to the guidelines established under ยง [15.2-5003](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5003/) shall have exceeded such 25 percent amount, the amount set aside for the Virginia Housing Development Authority under this section for calendar year 2008 shall be reduced by the amount of such excess, but in no event shall the amount of private activity bonds so allocated exceed 41 percent of the Virginia state ceiling on private activity bonds for calendar year 2008.

3. "State allocation." For calendar years 2008 and beyond, an amount equal to eighteen percent of the Virginia state ceiling on private activity bonds shall be set aside for state issuing authorities for allocations to housing and to exempt projects and manufacturing facilities of state and regional interests as determined by the Governor.

1987, c. 306, ยง 15.1-1399.14; 1990, c. 299; 1995, cc. [359](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0359), [384](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0384); 1997, c. 587; 1998, cc. [39](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0039), [784](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0784); 2008, c. [445](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0445).

