# ยง 15.2-6551 Board of the Authority; qualifications; terms; quorum; records.

All powers, rights, and duties conferred by this chapter, or by other provisions of law, upon the Authority shall be exercised by the Board of the Tourist Train Development Authority, hereinafter referred to as "the board." Initial appointments to the board shall begin July 1, 2014. The board shall consist of nine members as follows: seven members appointed by the Governor, of whom three shall be representatives from the governing bodies of Tazewell County, the Town of Bluefield, and the Town of Pocahontas and four shall be nonlegislative citizen members who reside in Tazewell County; one member of the House of Delegates representing Tazewell County, who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates if more than one Delegate represents Tazewell County; and one member of the Senate representing Tazewell County, who shall be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules if more than one Senator represents Tazewell County. All members shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed for one additional term, except legislative members, who shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office and may be reappointed. The term of any member of the board shall immediately terminate if the member no longer meets the eligibility criteria of the initial appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term. For the initial appointments only, three of the members shall be appointed for two-year terms and such initial terms shall not be counted toward the term limitation.

The board shall elect from its membership a chairman and a vice-chairman and from its membership or not, as they desire, a secretary and a treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, who shall continue to hold such office until their respective successors are elected. The members of the board shall receive no compensation. All members may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties from such funds as may be available to the Authority.

Four members of the board shall constitute a quorum of the board for the purposes of conducting its business and exercising its powers and for all other purposes. No vacancy in the membership of the board shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the board. The board shall keep detailed minutes of its proceedings, which shall be open to public inspection at all times. It shall keep suitable records of its financial transactions, and, unless exempted by ยง [30-140](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-140/), it shall arrange to have the records audited annually. Copies of each such audit shall be furnished to the governing bodies of Tazewell County and all adjacent counties and the Auditor of Public Accounts and shall be open to public inspection.

2014, c. [608](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0608).

