# ยง 15.2-5151 Water utilities may act as billing agents.

Any public utility supplying water to the owners, lessees or tenants of real estate which is or will be served by any sewer or sewage disposal system of an authority may act as the billing and collecting agent of the authority for any rates, fees, rents or charges imposed by the authority for the service rendered by such sewer or sewage disposal system. Such water utility shall furnish to the authority copies of its regular periodic meter reading and water consumption records and other pertinent data as may be required for the authority to act as its own billing and collecting agent. The authority shall pay to the water utility the reasonable additional cost of clerical services and other expenses incurred by the water utility in rendering such services to the authority. Upon the inability of the authority and the water utility to agree upon the terms and conditions under which the water utility will act as the billing and collecting agent of the authority, either or both may petition the State Corporation Commission for a determination of the terms and conditions under which the water company shall act as the billing and collecting agent of the authority. If the water utility acts as the billing and collecting agent of an authority it shall set forth separately on its bills the rates, fees or charges imposed by the authority. However, both the water and sewage disposal charges shall be payable to and collected by the water utility, and payment of either shall be refused unless both are paid. The authority shall pay to the water utility the cost of shutting off any water service on account of nonpayment of the sewage disposal charge. In the event of such discontinuance of water service the water service shall not be reestablished until the sewage disposal charge has been paid.

Code 1950, ยง 15-764.12; 1950, p. 1318; 1954, c. 554; 1958, cc. 400, 402; 1960, c. 430; 1962, cc. 130, 623, ยง 15.1-1250; 1968, cc. 355, 556; 1970, cc. 444, 617; 1972, c. 161; 1979, c. 280; 1980, c. 159; 1981, c. 610; 1983, c. 422; 1984, c. 554; 1994, c. [477](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0477); 1997, c. 587.

