# ยง 15.2-5608 Bond resolution; terms, conditions, form and execution of bonds; sale; interim receipts or temporary bonds.

Bonds of the authority shall be authorized by resolution of the board and may be issued in one or more series, shall be dated, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding forty years from their date or dates and shall bear interest at such rate or rates, as may be determined by the authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the authority at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the authority prior to the issuance of the bonds. The authority shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and the manner of execution of the bonds, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest, which may be at any bank or trust company within or outside the Commonwealth. In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before delivery of such bond, such signature or such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. Notwithstanding any of the other provisions of this chapter or any recitals in any bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter, all such bonds shall be deemed to be negotiable instruments under the laws of the Commonwealth. The bonds may be issued in coupon or registered form or both, as the authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bonds as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest, and for the reconversion into coupon bonds of any bonds registered as to both principal and interest. The authority may sell such bonds in such manner, either at public or private sale, and for such price, as it may determine to be for the best interests of the authority.

Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds shall have been executed and are available for delivery. The authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds which shall become mutilated or shall be destroyed or lost.

Bonds may be issued under the provisions of this chapter without obtaining the consent of any commission, board, bureau or agency of the Commonwealth or of any political subdivision thereof, and without any other proceedings or the happening of other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions or things which are specifically required by this chapter.

Code 1950, ยง 15-714.21; 1962, c. 393, ยง 9, ยง 15.1-1279; 1973, c. 238; 1997, c. 587.

