# § 15.2-5205 Powers of commission.

Any hospital or health center commission established hereunder shall have all powers necessary or convenient to carry out the general purposes of this chapter, including the power to:

1. Sue and be sued; to adopt a seal and alter the same at pleasure; to have perpetual succession; and to make and execute contracts and other instruments necessary or convenient to the exercise of its powers.

2. Employ such technical experts and such other officers, agents and employees as it may require, to fix their qualifications, duties and compensation and to remove such employees at pleasure.

3. Acquire within the territorial limits of the political subdivisions for which it is formed, by purchase, lease, gift or otherwise, whatever lands, buildings and structures as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of establishing, constructing, enlarging, maintaining and operating one or more hospitals or health centers.

4. Sell, lease, exchange, transfer, or assign any of its real or personal property, or any portion thereof or interest therein, to any person, firm, or corporation, whenever the commission finds such action to be in furtherance of the purposes for which the commission was created.

5. Acquire, establish, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip and operate any hospital or health center, and any other facilities and services for the care and treatment of sick persons.

6. Make and enforce rules and regulations for the management and conduct of its business and affairs and for the use, maintenance and operation of its facilities and properties.

7. Accept gifts and grants, including real or personal property, from the Commonwealth or any political subdivision thereof and from the United States and any of its agencies; and to accept donations of money, personal property or real estate, and take title thereto from any person.

8. Make rules and regulations governing the admission, care and treatment of patients in such hospital or health center, to classify patients as to charges to be paid by them, if any, and to determine the nature and extent of the service to be rendered patients.

9. Comply with the provisions of the laws of the United States and the Commonwealth, and any rules and regulations made thereunder, for the expenditures of federal or state money in connection with hospitals or health centers and to accept, receive and receipt for federal and state money granted the commission, or granted any of the political subdivisions for which it is formed, for hospital or health center purposes.

10. Borrow money upon its bonds, notes, debentures, or other evidences of indebtedness issued for the purpose only of acquiring, constructing, improving, furnishing or equipping buildings or structures for use as a hospital or health center, and to secure the same by pledges of its revenues and property as hereafter provided. This power shall include the power to refinance all or any portion of such debt, to renegotiate the terms of all or any portion of such debt, and to retire all or any portion of such debt prior to its maturity date.

11. Execute all instruments necessary or convenient in connection with the borrowing of money and issuing bonds as herein authorized.

12. Enter into leases and agreements with persons for the construction or operation or both of a hospital or health center by such persons on land of the commission.

13. Contract for the management and operation of any hospital or health center subject to the control of the commission; however, the commission may charge such rates for service as will enable it to make reasonable compensation for such management and operation.

14. Assist in or provide for the creation of domestic or foreign stock and nonstock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, associations, foundations or other supporting organizations or other entities and to purchase, receive, subscribe for or otherwise acquire, own, hold, vote, use, employ, sell, mortgage, lend, pledge, or otherwise dispose of, shares of or other interests in, or obligations of, any domestic or foreign stock and nonstock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, associations, foundations or other supporting organizations, joint ventures or other entities organized for any purpose, or direct or indirect obligations of the United States, or of any other government, state, territory, governmental district or municipality or of any other obligations of any domestic or foreign stock or nonstock corporation, limited liability company, partnership, limited partnership, association, foundation or other supporting organization, joint venture or other entity organized for any purpose or any individual. The investments of any entity wholly owned or controlled by a hospital or health center commission that is an "institution," as such term is defined in § [64.2-1100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1100/) shall be governed by the Uniform Prudent Management of Institutional Funds Act (§ [64.2-1100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1100/) et seq.).

15. Participate in joint ventures with individuals, domestic or foreign stock and nonstock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, associations, foundations or other supporting organizations or other entities for providing medical care or related services or other activities that the hospital or health center commission may undertake to the extent that such undertakings assist the hospital or health center commission in carrying out the purposes and intent of this chapter.

16. Provide domestic or foreign stock and nonstock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, associations, foundations or other supporting organizations, joint ventures or other entities owned in whole or in part or controlled, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the hospital or health center commission with appropriate assistance, including making loans and providing time of employees, in carrying out any activities authorized by this chapter.

17. Make loans and provide other assistance to domestic or foreign stock and nonstock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, associations, foundations or other supporting organizations, joint ventures or other entities.

18. Transact its business, locate its offices and control, directly or through domestic or foreign stock and nonstock corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships, associations, foundations or other supporting organizations, joint ventures or other entities, facilities that will assist or aid the hospital or health center commission in carrying out the purposes and intent of this chapter.

19. Procure such insurance, participate in such insurance plans, or provide such self-insurance, or any combination thereof, as it deems necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter. The purchase of insurance, participation in an insurance plan, or creation of a self-insurance plan by the hospital or health center commission shall not be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of any sovereign immunity to which the hospital or health center commission or its members, officers, directors, employees, or agents are otherwise entitled.

20. Exercise all other powers granted to nonstock corporations pursuant to § [13.1-826](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-826/).

Code 1950, § 32-280; 1975, c. 295, § 15.1-1519; 1979, c. 719; 1994, c. [759](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0759); 1996, c. [464](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0464); 1997, c. 587; 2006, c. [658](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0658); 2008, c. [184](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0184).

