# § 15.2-5814 Entitlement to sales tax revenues derived from a major league baseball stadium.

A. In connection with the issuance of bonds by the Authority to finance or refinance a major league baseball stadium, the Authority shall be entitled to all sales tax revenues that are generated by transactions taking place upon the premises of the major league baseball stadium. Such entitlement shall continue for the lifetime of such bonds, but that entitlement shall not exceed thirty years. Sales tax revenues may be applied to repayment of the bonds, stadium operating expenses, master lease rental payments by the Commonwealth, capital expenditures and other purposes of the Authority. The State Comptroller shall remit such sales tax revenues to the Authority on a quarterly basis, subject to such reasonable processing delays as may be required by the Department of Taxation to calculate the actual net sales tax revenues generated by transactions taking place upon the premises of the major league baseball stadium. The State Comptroller shall make such remittances to the Authority, as provided herein, notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Virginia Retail Sales and Use Tax Act (§ [58.1-600](/vacode/58.1-600/) et seq.).

B. In connection with the issuance of bonds by the Authority to finance or refinance a major league baseball stadium, the local governing body of the locality in which the stadium is located may direct, by ordinance or resolution, that all local sales and use tax revenues generated by transactions taking place upon the premises of the major league stadium from taxes levied pursuant to §§ [58.1-605](/vacode/58.1-605/) and [58.1-606](/vacode/58.1-606/) shall be remitted by the State Comptroller to the Authority for the repayment of bonds, stadium operating expenses, master lease rental payments by the Commonwealth, capital expenditures and other purposes of the Authority. Such remittances shall be for the same period and under the same conditions as remittances to the Authority paid in accordance with subsection A, mutatis mutandis.

C. In connection with the issuance of bonds by the Authority to finance or refinance a major league baseball stadium, the local governing body of the locality in which the stadium is located may direct, by ordinance or resolution, that all admissions tax revenues of such locality generated by admissions to the major league stadium from taxes levied pursuant to §§ [58.1-3818](/vacode/58.1-3818/) and [58.1-3840](/vacode/58.1-3840/) shall be remitted to the Authority for the repayment of bonds, stadium operating expenses, master lease rental payments by the Commonwealth, capital expenditures and other purposes of the Authority. Any levy pursuant to this section may be for the lifetime of such bonds, but such levy shall not exceed thirty years.

1995, cc. [613](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0613), [629](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0629), § 15.1-227.84; 1996, cc. [950](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0950), [1038](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1038); 1997, cc. [587](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587), [884](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0884); 2005, c. [106](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0106).

