# ยง 15.2-209 Notice to be given to counties, cities, and towns of tort claims for damages.

A. Every claim cognizable against any county, city, or town for negligence shall be forever barred unless the claimant or his agent, attorney, or representative has filed a written statement of the nature of the claim, which includes the time and place at which the injury is alleged to have occurred, within six months after such cause of action accrued. Failure to provide such statement shall not bar a claim against any county, city, or town, provided that the attorney, chief executive, or mayor of such locality, or any insurer or entity providing coverage or indemnification of the claim, had actual knowledge of the claim, which includes the nature of the claim and the time and place at which the injury is alleged to have occurred, within six months after such cause of action accrued. However, if the claimant was under a disability at the time the cause of action accrued, the tolling provisions of ยง [8.01-229](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-229/) shall apply.

B. The statement shall be filed with the county, city, or town attorney or with the chief executive or mayor of the county, city, or town.

C. The notice is deemed filed when it is received in the office of the official to whom the notice is directed. The notice may be delivered by hand, by any form of United States mail service (including regular, certified, registered or overnight mail), or by commercial delivery service.

D. In any action contesting the filing of the notice of claim, the burden of proof shall be on the claimant to establish receipt of the notice in conformity with this section. A signed United States mail return receipt indicating the date of delivery, or any other form of signed and dated acknowledgment of delivery, given by authorized personnel in the office of the official with whom the statement is filed, shall be prima facie evidence of filing of the notice under this section.

E. This section does not, and shall not be construed to, abrogate, limit, expand or modify the sovereign immunity of any county, city, town, or any officer, agent or employee of the foregoing.

F. This section, on and after June 30, 1954, shall take precedence over the provisions of all charters and amendments thereto of municipal corporations in conflict herewith granted prior to such date. It is further declared that as to any such charter or amendment thereto, granted on and after such date, that any provision therein in conflict with this section shall be deemed to be invalid as being in conflict with Article IV, Section 12 of the Constitution of Virginia unless such conflict be stated in the title to such proposed charter or amendment thereto by the words "conflicting with ยง [15.2-209](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-209/) of the Code" or substantially similar language.

G. The provisions of this section are mandatory and shall be strictly construed. This section is procedural and compliance with its provisions is not jurisdictional.

2007, c. [368](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0368); 2016, c. [772](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0772).

