# ยง 16.1-354 Revocation, refusal, termination of standby guardianship.

A. The authority of a standby guardian approved by the court may be revoked by the qualified parent by his filing a notice of revocation with the court. The notice of revocation shall identify the standby guardian or alternate standby guardian to which the revocation will apply. A copy of the revocation shall also be delivered to the standby guardian whose authority is revoked and any alternate standby guardian who may then be authorized to act.

At any time following his approval by the court, a standby guardian approved by the court may decline to serve by filing a written statement of refusal with the court and having the statement personally served on the qualified parent and any alternate standby guardian who may then be authorized to act.

B. When a written designation has been executed, but is not yet effective because the triggering event has not yet occurred, the parent may revoke or the prospective standby guardian may refuse the designation by notifying the other party in writing.

A written designation may also be revoked by the execution of a subsequent inconsistent designation.

C. When a standby guardian's authority is effective upon debilitation or incompetence of the qualified parent, the standby guardian's authority to act on behalf of the parent continues even though the parent is restored to health unless the qualified parent notifies the guardian and, if appropriate, the court, in writing, that the standby guardian's authority is revoked upon such restoration or otherwise.

If at any time the court finds that the parent no longer meets the definition of "qualified parent," the court shall rescind its approval of the standby guardian.

1998, c. [829](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0829).

