# ยง 16.1-322.3 Localities and commissions to make monthly reports to Director; penalty for willfully falsifying information; procedure when locality or commission fails to make report.

Each locality or commission eligible to receive state funds in accordance with the terms of this article shall report each month to the Director on blank forms furnished by the Department the number of child care days registered during the preceding month by each juvenile correctional program or facility operated by such locality or commission. Such report shall be signed by both the chief administrative officer of the facility or program and fiscal officer of the locality or commission who shall certify the accuracy of the report. Either signer found guilty of willfully falsifying the information contained in such report shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

If any locality or commission fails to send such report within five days after the date when the report should be forwarded, the Director shall notify the chief administrative officer of such locality or commission of such failure. If the locality or commission fails to make the report within ten days from the date of such notice, then the Director shall cause the report to be prepared from the books of the locality or commission and shall certify the cost thereof to the Comptroller. The Comptroller shall issue his warrant on the Treasurer for that amount, deducting the same from any that may be due the locality or commission pursuant to ยง [16.1-322.2](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-322.2/) by the Commonwealth.

1983, c. 358.

