# ยง 16.1-345.6 Appeal of final order.

A. The minor shall have the right to appeal any final order committing the minor or ordering the minor to mandatory outpatient treatment to the circuit court in the jurisdiction where the minor was committed, hospitalized pursuant to the commitment order, or ordered to mandatory outpatient treatment. Venue shall be in the circuit court having jurisdiction within the territory of the court that issued the final order. The circuit court may transfer the case upon a finding that another forum is more convenient. The appeal shall be heard de novo by the circuit court in accordance with the provisions set forth in this article. Any order of the circuit court shall not extend the period of commitment or mandatory outpatient treatment set forth in the order appealed from.

B. Notice of an appeal shall be filed within 10 days from the date of the order. The appeal shall be given priority over all other pending matters before the circuit court and heard as soon as possible, notwithstanding ยง [19.2-241](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/19.2-241/) regarding the time within which the court shall set criminal cases for trial. A petition for or the pendency of an appeal shall not suspend any order unless so ordered by the court, however a minor may be released after a petition for or during the pendency of an appeal pursuant to subsection B of ยง [16.1-346](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-346/). The clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken shall immediately transmit the record to the clerk of the appellate court. The clerk of the circuit court shall provide written notification of the appeal to the person who initiated the petition under this article in accordance with procedures set forth in ยง [16.1-112](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-112/).

C. The juvenile and domestic relations district court shall appoint an attorney and a guardian ad litem to represent any minor desiring to appeal who is not already represented.

2010, cc. [778](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0778), [825](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0825).

