# § 16.1-282.2 Annual foster care review.

A. The court shall review a foster care plan annually for any child who remains in the legal custody of a local board of social services or a child welfare agency and (i) on whose behalf a petition to terminate parental rights has been granted, filed or ordered to be filed, (ii) who is placed in permanent foster care, or (iii) who is age 16 or over and for whom the plan is independent living. The foster care review hearing shall be scheduled at the conclusion of a hearing held pursuant to § [16.1-281](/vacode/16.1-281/), [16.1-282](/vacode/16.1-282/), or [16.1-282.1](/vacode/16.1-282.1/) at which the order is entered: terminating parental rights, directing the filing of a petition for termination of parental rights by the board or agency, placing the child in permanent foster care, or directing the board or agency to provide the child who is age 16 or over and for whom the plan is independent living with services to transition from foster care. The foster care review hearing shall be held within 12 months of the date of such order, so long as the child remains in the custody of the board or agency.

The board or agency shall file the petition for a foster care review hearing, and the court shall provide notice of the foster care review hearing in accordance with the provisions of § [16.1-282](/vacode/16.1-282/). The board or agency shall file a written Adoption Progress Report with the juvenile court pursuant to § [16.1-277.01](/vacode/16.1-277.01/), [16.1-277.02](/vacode/16.1-277.02/), [16.1-278.3](/vacode/16.1-278.3/), or [16.1-283](/vacode/16.1-283/), if applicable, with the petition required by this section. The court order entered at the conclusion of the hearing held on the petition shall state whether reasonable efforts have been made to place the child in a timely manner in accordance with the approved foster care plan that established a permanent goal for the child and to complete the steps necessary to finalize the permanent placement of the child.

B. At the foster care review hearing in the case of a child who is placed in permanent foster care, the court shall give consideration to the appropriateness of the services being provided to the child and permanent foster parents, to any change in circumstances since the entry of the order placing the child in permanent foster care, and to such other factors as the court deems proper.

C. At the foster care review hearing in the case of a child who meets the criteria of subdivisions A 1 through 4 of § [16.1-283.2](/vacode/16.1-283.2/), the court shall inquire of the guardian ad litem and the local board of social services whether the child has expressed a preference that the possibility of restoring the parental rights of his parent or parents be investigated. If the child expresses or has expressed such a preference, the court shall direct the local board of social services or the child's guardian ad litem to conduct an investigation of the parent or parents. If, following such investigation, the local board of social services or the child's guardian ad litem deems it appropriate to do so, either may file a petition for the restoration of parental rights. A hearing on such petition shall be held as provided by § [16.1-283.2](/vacode/16.1-283.2/).

D. In cases in which a child is placed by the local board of social services or a licensed child-placing agency in a qualified residential treatment program as defined in § [16.1-228](/vacode/16.1-228/), the provisions of subsection E of § [16.1-281](/vacode/16.1-281/) shall apply to any hearing held pursuant to this section.

2002, c. [512](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0512); 2008, cc. [475](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0475), [483](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0483); 2018, c. [104](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0104); 2019, cc. [282](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0282), [688](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0688).

