# § 16.1-337 Inpatient treatment of minors; general applicability; disclosure of records.

A. A minor may be admitted to a mental health facility for inpatient treatment only pursuant to § [16.1-338](/vacode/16.1-338/), [16.1-339](/vacode/16.1-339/), or [16.1-340.1](/vacode/16.1-340.1/) or in accordance with an order of involuntary commitment entered pursuant to §§ [16.1-341](/vacode/16.1-341/) through [16.1-345](/vacode/16.1-345/). The provisions of Article 12 (§ [16.1-299](/vacode/16.1-299/) et seq.) of Chapter 11 and § 16.1-337.1 relating to the confidentiality of files, papers, and records shall apply to proceedings under this article.

B. Any health care provider, as defined in § [32.1-127.1:03](/vacode/32.1-127.1:03/), or other provider rendering services to a minor who is the subject of proceedings under this article, upon request, shall disclose to a magistrate, the juvenile intake officer, the court, the minor's attorney, the minor's guardian ad litem, the qualified evaluator performing the evaluation required under §§ [16.1-338](/vacode/16.1-338/), [16.1-339](/vacode/16.1-339/), and [16.1-342](/vacode/16.1-342/), the community services board or its designee performing the evaluation, preadmission screening, or monitoring duties under this article, or a law-enforcement officer any and all information that is necessary and appropriate to enable each of them to perform his duties under this article. These health care providers and other service providers shall disclose to one another health records and information where necessary to provide care and treatment to the person and to monitor that care and treatment. Health records disclosed to a law-enforcement officer shall be limited to information necessary to protect the officer, the minor, or the public from physical injury or to address the health care needs of the minor. Information disclosed to a law-enforcement officer shall not be used for any other purpose, disclosed to others, or retained.

Any health care provider providing services to a minor who is the subject of proceedings under this article shall make a reasonable attempt to notify the minor's parent of information that is directly relevant to such individual's involvement with the minor's health care, which may include the minor's location and general condition, in accordance with subdivision D 34 of § [32.1-127.1:03](/vacode/32.1-127.1:03/), unless the provider has actual knowledge that the parent is currently prohibited by court order from contacting the minor. No health care provider shall be required to notify a person's family member or personal representative pursuant to this section if the health care provider has actual knowledge that such notice has been provided.

Any health care provider disclosing records pursuant to this section shall be immune from civil liability for any harm resulting from the disclosure, including any liability under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (42 U.S.C. § 1320d et seq.), as amended, unless the person or provider disclosing such records intended the harm or acted in bad faith.

C. Any order entered where a minor is the subject of proceedings under this article shall provide for the disclosure of health records pursuant to subsection B. This subsection shall not preclude any other disclosures as required or permitted by law.

1990, c. 975; 1992, c. 539; 2008, cc. [782](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0782), [850](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0850), [870](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0870); 2009, cc. [455](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0455), [555](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0555); 2010, cc. [778](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0778), [825](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0825); 2016, cc. [569](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0569), [693](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0693); 2018, c. [846](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0846).

