# ยง 17.1-506 Judicial circuits.

1. The City of Chesapeake shall constitute the first circuit.

2. The City of Virginia Beach and the Counties of Accomack and Northampton shall constitute the second circuit.

3. The City of Portsmouth shall constitute the third circuit.

4. The City of Norfolk shall constitute the fourth circuit.

5. The Cities of Franklin and Suffolk and the Counties of Isle of Wight and Southampton shall constitute the fifth circuit.

6. The Cities of Emporia and Hopewell and the Counties of Brunswick, Greensville, Prince George, Surry and Sussex shall constitute the sixth circuit.

7. The City of Newport News shall constitute the seventh circuit.

8. The City of Hampton shall constitute the eighth circuit.

9. The Cities of Poquoson and Williamsburg and the Counties of Charles City, Gloucester, James City, King and Queen, King William, Mathews, Middlesex, New Kent and York shall constitute the ninth circuit.

10. The Counties of Appomattox, Buckingham, Charlotte, Cumberland, Halifax, Lunenburg, Mecklenburg and Prince Edward shall constitute the tenth circuit.

11. The City of Petersburg and the Counties of Amelia, Dinwiddie, Nottoway and Powhatan shall constitute the eleventh circuit.

12. The City of Colonial Heights and the County of Chesterfield shall constitute the twelfth circuit.

13. The City of Richmond shall constitute the thirteenth circuit.

14. The County of Henrico shall constitute the fourteenth circuit.

15. The City of Fredericksburg and the Counties of Caroline, Essex, Hanover, King George, Lancaster, Northumberland, Richmond, Spotsylvania, Stafford and Westmoreland shall constitute the fifteenth circuit.

16. The City of Charlottesville and the Counties of Albemarle, Culpeper, Fluvanna, Goochland, Greene, Louisa, Madison and Orange shall constitute the sixteenth circuit.

17. The County of Arlington and the City of Falls Church shall constitute the seventeenth circuit.

18. The City of Alexandria shall constitute the eighteenth circuit.

19. The City of Fairfax and the County of Fairfax shall constitute the nineteenth circuit.

20. The Counties of Fauquier, Loudoun and Rappahannock shall constitute the twentieth circuit.

21. The City of Martinsville and the Counties of Henry and Patrick shall constitute the twenty-first circuit.

22. The City of Danville and the Counties of Franklin and Pittsylvania shall constitute the twenty-second circuit.

23. The Cities of Roanoke and Salem and the County of Roanoke shall constitute the twenty-third circuit.

24. The City of Lynchburg and the Counties of Amherst, Bedford, Campbell and Nelson shall constitute the twenty-fourth circuit.

25. The Cities of Buena Vista, Covington, Lexington, Staunton and Waynesboro and the Counties of Alleghany, Augusta, Bath, Botetourt, Craig, Highland and Rockbridge shall constitute the twenty-fifth circuit.

26. The Cities of Harrisonburg and Winchester and the Counties of Clarke, Frederick, Page, Rockingham, Shenandoah and Warren shall constitute the twenty-sixth circuit.

27. The Cities of Galax and Radford and the Counties of Bland, Carroll, Floyd, Giles, Grayson, Montgomery, Pulaski and Wythe shall constitute the twenty-seventh circuit.

28. The City of Bristol and the Counties of Smyth and Washington shall constitute the twenty-eighth circuit.

29. The Counties of Buchanan, Dickenson, Russell and Tazewell shall constitute the twenty-ninth circuit.

30. The City of Norton and the Counties of Lee, Scott and Wise shall constitute the thirtieth circuit.

31. The Cities of Manassas and Manassas Park and the County of Prince William shall constitute the thirty-first circuit.

1973, c. 544, ยง 17-119.1:1; 1974, c. 297; 1976, c. 126; 1977, c. 4; 1983, c. 149; 1986, c. 405; 1987, c. 624; 1991, c. 189; 1998, c. [872](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872); 2006, c. [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0861); 2016, cc. [164](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0164), [312](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0312).

