# § 17.1-503 Rules of practice and procedure; rules not to preclude judges from hearing certain cases.

A. The Supreme Court may formulate rules of practice and procedure for the circuit courts following consultation with the Chairmen of the House Committee for Courts of Justice and the Senate Committee on the Judiciary and the executive committee of the Judicial Conference of Virginia for courts of record. Such rules, subject to the strict construction of the provisions of § [8.01-4](/vacode/8.01-4/), which shall be the only rules of practice and procedure in the circuit courts of the Commonwealth, shall be included in the Code of Virginia as provided in § [8.01-3](/vacode/8.01-3/), subject to revision by the General Assembly.

B. No rule shall hereafter be promulgated under the limitations of § [8.01-4](/vacode/8.01-4/), or otherwise which would avoid or preclude the judge before whom an accused is arraigned in criminal cases from hearing all aspects of the case on its merits, or to avoid or preclude any judge in any case who has heard any part of the case on its merits, from hearing the case to its conclusion. However, another judge may hear portions of a case where a judge is required to disqualify himself, in cases in which a mistrial is declared, or in cases which have been reversed on appeal, or in the event of sickness, disability or vacation of the judge. The parties to any suit, action, cause or prosecution may waive the provisions of this section. Such waiver shall be entered of record.

C. In its rules of practice and procedure for the circuit courts, the Supreme Court shall include rules relating to court decisions on any order of quarantine or isolation issued by the State Health Commissioner pursuant to Article 3.02 (§ [32.1-48.05](/vacode/32.1-48.05/) et seq.) of Chapter 2 of Title 32.1 that shall ensure, to the extent possible, that such hearings are held in a manner that will protect the health and safety of individuals subject to any such order of quarantine or isolation, court personnel, counsels, witnesses, and the general public. The rules shall also provide for expedited reviews by the Court of Appeals of decisions by any circuit court and by the Supreme Court of decisions of the Court of Appeals relating to appeals of any order of quarantine or isolation.

1973, c. 544, § 17-116.4; 1976, c. 212; 1998, c. [872](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872); 2004, cc. [773](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0773), [1021](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1021); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [489](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0489).

