# ยง 18.2-340.34:1 Bingo managers and callers; remuneration; registration; qualification; suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew certificate; exceptions.

A. No person shall receive remuneration as a bingo manager or caller from any qualified organization unless and until such person has made application for and has been issued a registration certificate by the Department. Application for registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department and shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $75. Each registration certificate shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance. Application for renewal of a registration certificate shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $75 and shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.

B. As a condition of registration as a bingo manager, the applicant shall (i) have been a bona fide member of the qualified organization for at least 12 consecutive months prior to making application for registration and (ii) be required to complete a reasonable training course developed and conducted by the Department.

As a condition of registration as a bingo caller, the applicant shall be required to complete a reasonable training course developed and conducted by the Department.

The Department may refuse to register any bingo manager or caller who has (a) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony in any state or federal court or has been convicted of any offense which, if committed in the Commonwealth, would be a felony; (b) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime involving gambling; (c) had any license, permit, certificate, or other authority related to activities defined as charitable gaming in the Commonwealth suspended or revoked in the Commonwealth or in any other jurisdiction; or (d) failed to file or has been delinquent in excess of one year in the filing of any tax returns or the payment of any taxes due the Commonwealth.

C. The Department may suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the registration certificate of any bingo manager or caller for any conduct described in subsection B or for any violation of this article or Department regulations. Before taking any such action, the Department shall give the bingo manager or caller a written statement of the grounds upon which it proposes to take such action and an opportunity to be heard. Every hearing in a contested case shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

D. The provisions of subsection A requiring registration for bingo callers with the Department shall not apply to a bingo caller for a volunteer fire department or volunteer emergency medical services agency or auxiliary unit thereof that has been recognized in accordance with ยง [15.2-955](/vacode/15.2-955/) by an ordinance or resolution of the political subdivision where the volunteer fire department or volunteer emergency medical services agency is located as being a part of the safety program of such political subdivision.

2005, cc. [776](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0776), [826](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0826); 2007, cc. [226](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0226), [347](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0347); 2015, cc. [502](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502), [503](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503); 2022, cc. [554](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0554), [609](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0609).

