# ยง 18.2-340.34:2 Licensing of network bingo providers; qualification; suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew license; maintenance, production, and release of records.

A. No person shall sell or offer to sell or otherwise provide access to a network bingo network to any qualified organization unless and until such person has made application for and has been issued a license by the Department. An application for license shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department and shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $500. Each license shall remain valid for a period of two years from the date of issuance. Application for renewal of a license shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $500 and shall be made on forms prescribed by the Department.

B. The Commissioner shall have authority to prescribe by regulation reasonable criteria consistent with the provisions of this article for the licensure of network bingo providers. The Department may refuse to issue a license to any network bingo provider that has any officer, director, partner, or owner who has (i) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony in any state or federal court or has been convicted of any offense that, if committed in the Commonwealth, would be a felony; (ii) been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a crime involving gambling; (iii) had any license, permit, certificate, or other authority related to activities defined as charitable gaming in the Commonwealth suspended or revoked in the Commonwealth or in any other jurisdiction; (iv) failed to file or been delinquent in excess of one year in the filing of any tax returns or the payment of any taxes due the Commonwealth; or (v) failed to establish a registered office or registered agent in the Commonwealth if so required by ยง [13.1-634](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-634/) or [13.1-763](/vacode/13.1-763/).

C. The Department may suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew the license of any network bingo provider for any conduct described in subsection B or for any violation of this article or regulation of the Department. Before taking any such action, the Department shall give the network bingo provider a written statement of the grounds upon which it proposes to take such action and an opportunity to be heard. Every hearing in a contested case shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

D. The Commissioner by regulation shall require network bingo providers to have onsite independent supervision of network bingo games as the numbers are called.

E. Each network bingo provider shall document each sale of network bingo supplies and other items incidental to the conduct of network bingo to a qualified organization on an invoice that clearly shows (i) the name and address of the qualified organization to which such supplies or items were sold; (ii) the date of the sale; (iii) the name or form and serial number of each network bingo card, the quantity of cards sold, and the price per card paid by the qualified organization; and (iv) any other information required by the Department. A legible copy of the invoice shall accompany the network bingo supplies when delivered to the qualified organization.

F. Each network bingo provider shall maintain a legible copy of each invoice required by subsection E for a period of three years from the date of sale. Each network bingo provider shall make such documents immediately available for inspection and copying to any agent or employee of the Department upon request made during normal business hours. This subsection shall not limit the right of the Department to require the production of any other documents in the possession of the network bingo provider that relate to its transactions with qualified organizations. All documents and other information of a proprietary nature furnished to the Department in accordance with this subsection shall be exempt from disclosure under the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act (ยง [2.2-3700](/vacode/2.2-3700/) et seq.).

2013, cc. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0036), [350](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0350); 2022, cc. [554](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0554), [609](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0609).

