# § 18.2-370.3 Sex offenses prohibiting residing in proximity to children; penalty.

A. Every adult who is convicted of an offense occurring on or after July 1, 2006, where the offender is more than three years older than the victim, of one of the following qualifying offenses: (i) clause (iii) of subsection A of § [18.2-61](/vacode/18.2-61/), (ii) subdivision A 1 of § [18.2-67.1](/vacode/18.2-67.1/), (iii) subdivision A 1 of § [18.2-67.2](/vacode/18.2-67.2/), or (iv) any similar offense under the laws of any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States or any political subdivision thereof, shall be forever prohibited from residing within 500 feet of the premises of any place he knows or has reason to know is a child day center as defined in § [22.1-289.02](/vacode/22.1-289.02/), or a primary, secondary, or high school. A violation of this section is a Class 6 felony. The provisions of this section shall only apply if the qualifying offense was done in the commission of, or as a part of the same course of conduct as, or as part of a common scheme or plan as a violation of (a) subsection A of § [18.2-47](/vacode/18.2-47/) or § [18.2-48](/vacode/18.2-48/); (b) § [18.2-89](/vacode/18.2-89/), [18.2-90](/vacode/18.2-90/), or [18.2-91](/vacode/18.2-91/); (c) § [18.2-51.2](/vacode/18.2-51.2/); or (d) any similar offense under the laws of any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States or any political subdivision thereof.

B. An adult who is convicted of an offense as specified in subsection A and has established a lawful residence shall not be in violation of this section if a child day center or a primary, secondary, or high school is established within 500 feet of his residence subsequent to his conviction.

C. Every adult who is convicted of an offense occurring on or after July 1, 2008, where the offender is more than three years older than the victim, of one of the following qualifying offenses: (i) clause (iii) of subsection A of § [18.2-61](/vacode/18.2-61/), (ii) subdivision A 1 of § [18.2-67.1](/vacode/18.2-67.1/), (iii) subdivision A 1 of § [18.2-67.2](/vacode/18.2-67.2/), or (iv) any similar offense under the laws of any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States or any political subdivision thereof, shall be forever prohibited from residing within 500 feet of the boundary line of any place he knows is a public park when such park (a) is owned and operated by a county, city, or town, (b) shares a boundary line with a primary, secondary, or high school, and (c) is regularly used for school activities. A violation of this section is a Class 6 felony. The provisions of this section shall only apply if the qualifying offense was done in the commission of, or as a part of the same course of conduct as, or as part of a common scheme or plan as a violation of (1) subsection A of § [18.2-47](/vacode/18.2-47/) or § [18.2-48](/vacode/18.2-48/); (2) § [18.2-89](/vacode/18.2-89/), [18.2-90](/vacode/18.2-90/), or [18.2-91](/vacode/18.2-91/); (3) § [18.2-51.2](/vacode/18.2-51.2/); or (4) any similar offense under the laws of any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States or any political subdivision thereof.

D. An adult who is convicted of an offense as specified in subsection C and has established a lawful residence shall not be in violation of this section if a public park that (i) is owned and operated by a county, city, or town, (ii) shares a boundary line with a primary, secondary, or high school, and (iii) is regularly used for school activities, is established within 500 feet of his residence subsequent to his conviction.

E. The prohibitions in this section predicated upon an offense similar to any offense set forth in this section under the laws of any foreign country or any political subdivision thereof, or the United States or any political subdivision thereof, shall apply only to residences established on and after July 1, 2017.

2006, cc. [857](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0857), [914](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0914); 2008, c. [726](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0726); 2017, c. [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0507); 2020, cc. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860), [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861).

