# ยง 18.2-246.6 Definitions.

For purposes of this article:

"Adult" means a person who is at least the legal minimum purchasing age.

"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority.

"Consumer" means an individual who is not permitted as a wholesaler pursuant to ยง [58.1-1011](/vacode/58.1-1011/) or who is not a retailer.

"Delivery sale" means any sale of cigarettes to a consumer in the Commonwealth regardless of whether the seller is located in the Commonwealth where either (i) the purchaser submits the order for such sale by means of a telephonic or other method of voice transmission, the mails or any other delivery service, or the Internet or other online service; or (ii) the cigarettes are delivered by use of the mails or a delivery service. A sale of cigarettes not for personal consumption to a person who is a wholesale dealer or retail dealer, as such terms are defined in ยง [58.1-1000](/vacode/58.1-1000/), shall not be a delivery sale. A delivery of cigarettes, not through the mail or by a common carrier, to a consumer performed by the owner, employee or other individual acting on behalf of a retailer authorized to sell such cigarettes shall not be a delivery sale.

"Delivery service" means any person who is engaged in the commercial delivery of letters, packages, or other containers.

"Legal minimum purchasing age" is the minimum age at which an individual may legally purchase cigarettes in the Commonwealth.

"Mails" or "mailing" means the shipment of cigarettes through the United States Postal Service.

"Shipping container" means a container in which cigarettes are shipped in connection with a delivery sale.

"Shipping documents" means bills of lading, airbills, or any other documents used to evidence the undertaking by a delivery service to deliver letters, packages, or other containers.

2003, c. [1010](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1010); 2005, c. [839](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0839); 2015, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038), [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730).

