# § 18.2-340.33 Prohibited practices.

In addition to those other practices prohibited by this article, the following acts or practices are prohibited:

1. No part of the gross receipts or electronic gaming adjusted gross receipts derived by a qualified organization may be used for any purpose other than (i) gaming expenses; (ii) reasonable and proper business expenses; and (iii) those lawful religious, charitable, community, or educational purposes for which the organization is specifically chartered or organized.

2. Except as provided in § [18.2-340.34:1](/vacode/18.2-340.34:1/), no qualified organization shall enter into a contract with or otherwise employ for compensation any person for the purpose of organizing, managing, or conducting any charitable games. However, organizations composed of or for deaf or blind persons may use a part of their gross receipts for costs associated with providing clerical assistance in the management and operation but not the conduct of charitable gaming.

The provisions of this subdivision shall not prohibit the joint operation of bingo games held in accordance with § [18.2-340.29](/vacode/18.2-340.29/).

3. No person shall pay or receive for use of any premises wholly devoted to the conduct of any charitable games, any consideration in excess of the current fair market rental value of such property. Fair market rental value consideration shall not be based upon or determined by reference to a percentage of the proceeds derived from the operation of any charitable games or to the number of people in attendance at such charitable games.

4. No person shall participate in the management or operation of any charitable game unless such person is and, for a period of at least 30 days immediately preceding such participation, has been a bona fide member of the organization. For any organization that is not composed of members, a person who is not a bona fide member may volunteer in the conduct of a charitable game as long as that person is directly supervised by a bona fide official member of the organization.

The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to (i) persons employed as clerical assistants by qualified organizations composed of or for deaf or blind persons; (ii) employees of a corporate sponsor of a qualified organization, provided such employees' participation is limited to the management, operation, or conduct of no more than one raffle per year; (iii) the spouse or family member of any such bona fide member of a qualified organization provided at least one bona fide member is present; or (iv) persons employed by a qualified organization authorized to sell pull tabs or seal cards in accordance with § [18.2-340.16](/vacode/18.2-340.16/), provided (a) such sales are conducted by no more than two on-duty employees and (b) such employees receive no compensation for or based on the sale of the pull tabs or seal cards.

5. No person shall receive any remuneration for participating in the management, operation, or conduct of any charitable game, except that:

a. Persons employed by organizations composed of or for deaf or blind persons may receive remuneration not to exceed $30 per event for providing clerical assistance in the management and operation but not the conduct of charitable games only for such organizations;

b. Persons under the age of 19 who sell raffle tickets for a qualified organization to raise funds for youth activities in which they participate may receive nonmonetary incentive awards or prizes from the organization;

c. Remuneration may be paid to off-duty law-enforcement officers from the jurisdiction in which such bingo games are played for providing uniformed security for such bingo games even if such officer is a member of the sponsoring organization, provided the remuneration paid to such member is in accordance with off-duty law-enforcement personnel work policies approved by the local law-enforcement official and further provided that such member is not otherwise engaged in the management, operation, or conduct of the bingo games of that organization, or to private security services businesses licensed pursuant to § [9.1-139](/vacode/9.1-139/) providing uniformed security for such bingo games, provided that employees of such businesses shall not otherwise be involved in the management, operation, or conduct of the bingo games of that organization;

d. A member of a qualified organization lawfully participating in the management, operation, or conduct of a bingo game may be provided food and nonalcoholic beverages by such organization for on-premises consumption during the bingo game provided the food and beverages are provided in accordance with Department regulations;

e. Remuneration may be paid to bingo managers or callers who have a current registration certificate issued by the Department in accordance with § [18.2-340.34:1](/vacode/18.2-340.34:1/), or who are exempt from such registration requirement. Such remuneration shall not exceed $100 per session; and

f. Volunteers of a qualified organization may be reimbursed for their reasonable and necessary travel expenses, not to exceed $50 per session.

6. No landlord shall, at bingo games conducted on the landlord's premises, (i) participate in the conduct, management, or operation of any bingo games; (ii) sell, lease, or otherwise provide for consideration any bingo supplies, including bingo cards, instant bingo cards, or other game pieces; or (iii) require as a condition of the lease or by contract that a particular manufacturer, distributor, or supplier of bingo supplies or equipment be used by the organization.

The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to any qualified organization conducting bingo games on its own behalf at premises owned by it.

7. No qualified organization shall enter into any contract with or otherwise employ or compensate any member of the organization on account of the sale of bingo supplies or equipment.

8. No organization shall award any bingo prize money or any merchandise valued in excess of the following amounts:

a. No bingo door prize shall exceed $250 for a single door prize or $500 in cumulative door prizes in any one session;

b. No regular bingo or special bingo game prize shall exceed $100. However, up to 10 games per bingo session may feature a regular bingo or special bingo game prize of up to $200;

c. No instant bingo, pull tab, or seal card prize for a single card shall exceed $2,000;

d. Except as provided in this subdivision 8, no bingo jackpot of any nature whatsoever shall exceed $1,000, nor shall the total amount of bingo jackpot prizes awarded in any one session exceed $1,000. Proceeds from the sale of bingo cards and the sheets used for bingo jackpot games shall be accounted for separately from the bingo cards or sheets used for any other bingo games; and

e. No single network bingo prize shall exceed $25,000. Proceeds from the sale of network bingo cards shall be accounted for separately from bingo cards and sheets used for any other bingo game.

9. The provisions of subdivision 8 shall not apply to:

Any progressive bingo game, in which (i) a regular or special prize, not to exceed $100, is awarded on the basis of predetermined numbers or patterns selected at random and (ii) a progressive prize, not to exceed $500 for the initial progressive prize and $5,000 for the maximum progressive prize, is awarded if the predetermined numbers or patterns are covered when a certain number of numbers is called, provided that (a) there are no more than six such games per session per organization, (b) the amount of increase of the progressive prize per session is no more than $200, (c) the bingo cards or sheets used in such games are sold separately from the bingo cards or sheets used for any other bingo games, (d) the organization separately accounts for the proceeds from such sale, and (e) such games are otherwise operated in accordance with the Department's rules of play.

10. No organization shall award any raffle prize valued at more than $100,000.

The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to a raffle conducted no more than three times per calendar year by a qualified organization qualified as a tax-exempt organization pursuant to § 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code for a prize consisting of a lot improved by a residential dwelling where 100 percent of the moneys received from such a raffle, less deductions for the fair market value for the cost of acquisition of the land and materials, are donated to lawful religious, charitable, community, or educational organizations specifically chartered or organized under the laws of the Commonwealth and qualified as a § 501(c) tax-exempt organization. No more than one such raffle shall be conducted in any one geographical region of the Commonwealth.

11. No qualified organization composed of or for deaf or blind persons which employs a person not a member to provide clerical assistance in the management and operation but not the conduct of any charitable games shall conduct such games unless it has in force fidelity insurance, as defined in § [38.2-120](/vacode/38.2-120/), written by an insurer licensed to do business in the Commonwealth.

12. No person shall participate in the management or operation of any charitable game if he has ever been convicted of any felony or if he has been convicted of any misdemeanor involving fraud, theft, or financial crimes within the preceding five years. No person shall participate in the conduct of any charitable game if, within the preceding 10 years, he has been convicted of any felony or if, within the preceding five years he has been convicted of any misdemeanor involving fraud, theft, or financial crimes. In addition, no person shall participate in the management, operation, or conduct of any charitable game if that person, within the preceding five years, has participated in the management, operation, or conduct of any charitable game which was found by the Department or a court of competent jurisdiction to have been operated in violation of state law, local ordinance, or Department regulation.

13. Qualified organizations jointly conducting bingo games pursuant to § [18.2-340.29](/vacode/18.2-340.29/) shall not circumvent any restrictions and prohibitions which would otherwise apply if a single organization were conducting such games. These restrictions and prohibitions shall include the frequency with which bingo games may be held, the value of merchandise or money awarded as prizes, or any other practice prohibited under this section.

14. A qualified organization shall not purchase any charitable gaming supplies for use in the Commonwealth from any person who is not currently registered with the Department as a supplier pursuant to § [18.2-340.34](/vacode/18.2-340.34/).

15. Unless otherwise permitted in this article, no part of an organization's charitable gaming gross receipts shall be used for an organization's social or recreational activities.

16. No organization qualified to conduct Texas Hold'em poker tournaments pursuant to § [18.2-340.28:2](/vacode/18.2-340.28:2/) shall conduct any Texas Hold'em poker games where the game has no predetermined end time and the players wager actual money or poker chips that have cash value.

1995, c. [837](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0837); 1996, c. [919](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0919); 1997, cc. [777](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0777), [838](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0838); 1998, cc. [57](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0057), [398](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0398); 1999, c. [534](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0534); 2000, c. [1000](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1000); 2001, c. [754](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0754); 2002, c. [282](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0282); 2003, c. [884](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0884); 2004, c. [275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0275); 2005, cc. [776](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0776), [826](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0826); 2006, c. [644](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0644); 2007, cc. [226](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0226), [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0790); 2008, c. [352](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0352); 2010, c. [429](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0429); 2013, cc. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0036), [350](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0350); 2017, cc. [566](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0566), [739](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0739); 2020, c. [568](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0568); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [491](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0491); 2022, cc. [553](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0553), [554](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0554), [609](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0609), [612](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0612), [722](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0722), [767](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0767).

