# § 18.2-308.012 Prohibited conduct.

A. Any person permitted to carry a concealed handgun who is under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs while carrying such handgun in a public place is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Conviction of any of the following offenses shall be prima facie evidence, subject to rebuttal, that the person is "under the influence" for purposes of this section: manslaughter in violation of § [18.2-36.1](/vacode/18.2-36.1/), maiming in violation of § [18.2-51.4](/vacode/18.2-51.4/), driving while intoxicated in violation of § [18.2-266](/vacode/18.2-266/), public intoxication in violation of § [18.2-388](/vacode/18.2-388/), or driving while intoxicated in violation of § [46.2-341.24](/vacode/46.2-341.24/). Upon such conviction that court shall revoke the person's permit for a concealed handgun and promptly notify the issuing circuit court. A person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall be ineligible to apply for a concealed handgun permit for a period of five years.

B. No person who carries a concealed handgun onto the premises of any restaurant or club as defined in § [4.1-100](/vacode/4.1-100/) for which a license to sell and serve alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption has been granted by the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority under Title 4.1 may consume an alcoholic beverage while on the premises. A person who carries a concealed handgun onto the premises of such a restaurant or club and consumes alcoholic beverages is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. However, nothing in this subsection shall apply to a federal, state, or local law-enforcement officer.

2013, c. [746](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0746); 2015, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038), [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730).

