# ยง 18.2-340.30:2 Reports of electronic gaming adjusted gross receipts by electronic gaming manufacturer required; form of reports; failure to file.

A. Each electronic gaming manufacturer that holds a permit issued by the Department pursuant to ยง [18.2-340.34](/vacode/18.2-340.34/) shall keep a complete record of all electronic gaming adjusted gross receipts and shall file at least annually, on a form prescribed by the Department, a report of all such receipts and any other information related to the manufacture of electronic gaming devices that the Department may require.

B. The report required by this section shall be filed on or before the date prescribed by the Department. The Board, by regulation, shall establish a schedule of late fees to be assessed for any electronic gaming manufacturer that fails to submit required reports by the due date.

C. Each electronic gaming manufacturer shall maintain for three years a complete written record of all electronic gaming adjusted gross receipts.

D. The failure to file the report required by this section within 30 days of the time such report is due shall cause the automatic revocation of the electronic gaming manufacturer's permit, and no such manufacturer shall manufacture any new electronic gaming device until the report is properly filed and a new permit is obtained. However, the Department may grant an extension of time for filing such report for a period not to exceed 45 days if requested by a manufacturer, provided that the manufacturer requests an extension within 15 days of the time such report is due and all projected fees are paid. For the term of any such extension, the manufacturer's permit shall not be automatically revoked, such manufacturer may continue to manufacture electronic gaming devices, and no new permit shall be required.

E. For purposes of this section, the requirement to file a report shall also include the payment of any applicable fees required to accompany such report.

2022, cc. [722](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0722), [767](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0767).

