# § 18.2-403.3 Offenses involving animals — Class 4 misdemeanors.

The following unlawful acts and offenses against animals shall constitute and be punished as a Class 4 misdemeanor:

1. Violation of § [3.2-6566](/vacode/3.2-6566/) pertaining to interference of agents charged with preventing cruelty to animals.

2. Violation of § [3.2-6573](/vacode/3.2-6573/) pertaining to shooting pigeons.

3. Violation of § [3.2-6554](/vacode/3.2-6554/) pertaining to disposing of the body of a dead companion animal.

4. Unless otherwise punishable under subsection B of § [3.2-6587](/vacode/3.2-6587/), violation of ordinances passed pursuant to §§ [3.2-6522](/vacode/3.2-6522/) and [3.2-6525](/vacode/3.2-6525/) pertaining to rabid dogs and preventing the spread of rabies and the running at large of vicious dogs.

5. Violation of an ordinance passed pursuant to § [3.2-6539](/vacode/3.2-6539/) requiring dogs to be on a leash.

6. Failure by any person to secure and exhibit the permits required by § [29.1-422](/vacode/29.1-422/) pertaining to field trails, night trails and foxhounds.

7. Diseased dogs. — For the owner of any dog with a contagious or infectious disease, other than rabies, to permit such dog to stray from his premises if such disease is known to the owner.

8. License application. — For any person to make a false statement in order to secure a dog or cat license to which he is not entitled.

9. License tax. — For any dog or cat owner to fail to pay any license tax required by subsection A or C of § [3.2-6530](/vacode/3.2-6530/) within one month after the date when it is due. In addition, the court may order confiscation and the proper disposition of the dog or cat.

10. Concealing a dog or cat. — For any person to conceal or harbor any dog or cat on which any required license tax has not been paid.

11. Removing collar and tag. — For any person, except the owner or custodian, to remove a legally acquired license tag from a dog or cat without the permission of the owner or custodian.

12. Violation of § [3.2-6503](/vacode/3.2-6503/) pertaining to care of animals by owner.

1984, c. 492; 1993, cc. 174, 817; 2017, cc. [559](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0559), [567](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0567); 2020, c. [1183](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1183).

