# § 19.2-392.7 (For contingent effective date see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. 524 and 542) Process for automatic sealing of offenses resulting in a conviction or deferred disposition.

A. On at least a monthly basis, the Department of State Police shall determine which offenses in the Central Criminal Records Exchange meet the criteria for automatic sealing set forth in § [19.2-392.6](/vacode/19.2-392.6/).

B. After reviewing the offenses under subsection A, the Department of State Police shall provide an electronic list of all offenses that meet the criteria for automatic sealing set forth in § [19.2-392.6](/vacode/19.2-392.6/) to the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court and to any circuit court clerk who maintains a case management system that interfaces with the Department of State Police under subsection B1 of § [17.1-502](/vacode/17.1-502/).

C. Upon receipt of the electronic list from the Department of State Police provided under subsection B, on at least a monthly basis the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court shall provide an electronic list of all offenses that meet the criteria for automatic sealing set forth in § [19.2-392.6](/vacode/19.2-392.6/) to the clerk of each circuit court in the jurisdiction where the case was finalized, if such circuit court clerk participates in the case management system maintained by the Executive Secretary.

D. Upon receipt of the electronic list provided under subsection B or C, on at least a monthly basis the clerk of each circuit court shall prepare an order and the chief judge of that circuit court shall enter such order directing that the offenses that meet the criteria for automatic sealing set forth in § [19.2-392.6](/vacode/19.2-392.6/) be automatically sealed under the process described in § [19.2-392.13](/vacode/19.2-392.13/). Such order shall contain the names of the persons charged with or convicted of such offenses.

E. The clerk of each circuit court shall provide an electronic copy of any order entered under subsection D to the Department of State Police on at least a monthly basis. Upon receipt of such order, the Department of State Police shall proceed as set forth in § [19.2-392.13](/vacode/19.2-392.13/).

F. Any order to seal issued pursuant to this section shall be sealed and may only be disseminated for the purposes set forth in § [19.2-392.13](/vacode/19.2-392.13/) and pursuant to rules and regulations adopted pursuant to § [9.1-128](/vacode/9.1-128/) and procedures adopted pursuant to § [9.1-134](/vacode/9.1-134/).

G. If an offense is automatically sealed contrary to law, the automatic sealing of that particular offense shall be voidable upon motion and notice made within two years of the entry of the order to automatically seal such offense.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0524), [542](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0542).

