# ยง 19.2-392.4 (For contingent effective date, see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. 550 and 551, cl. 9) Prohibited practices by employers, educational institutions, agencies, etc., of state and local governments.

A. An employer or educational institution shall not, in any application, interview, or otherwise, require an applicant for employment or admission to disclose information concerning any arrest or, criminal charge against him, conviction, or civil offense that has been expunged. An applicant need not, in answer to any question concerning any arrest or, criminal charge that has not resulted in a, conviction, or civil offense, include a reference to or information concerning arrests or, charges, convictions, or civil offenses that have been expunged.

B. Agencies, officials, and employees of the state and local governments shall not, in any application, interview, or otherwise, require an applicant for a license, permit, registration, or governmental service to disclose information concerning any arrest or, criminal charge against him, conviction, or civil offense that has been expunged. An applicant need not, in answer to any question concerning any arrest or, criminal charge that has not resulted in a, conviction, or civil offense include a reference to or information concerning an arrest, charges, convictions, or civil offenses that have been expunged. Such an application may not be denied solely because of the applicant's refusal to disclose information concerning any arrest or, criminal charge against him, conviction, or civil offense that has been expunged.

C. A person who willfully violates this section is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor for each violation.

1977, c. 675; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [550](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550), [551](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551).

