# ยง 19.2-306.2 Use of sentencing revocation report and discretionary sentencing guidelines in cases of revocation of suspension of sentence and probation.

A. In any proceeding conducted pursuant to ยง [19.2-306](/vacode/19.2-306/) for revocation of suspension of sentence or probation imposed as a result of a felony conviction, the circuit court shall have presented to it a sentencing revocation report prepared on a form designated by the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission. Such form shall indicate the nature of the alleged violation or violations and, if the defendant is subject to supervised probation, the condition or conditions of probation that the defendant has allegedly violated. The sentencing revocation report shall be prepared by the supervising probation agency that initiated the request for the revocation hearing. If the defendant is not under active probation supervision or the supervising probation agency did not initiate the request for the revocation hearing, the sentencing revocation report shall be completed by an attorney for the Commonwealth.

B. For every proceeding conducted pursuant to ยง [19.2-306](/vacode/19.2-306/) in which the defendant is cited for violating a condition or conditions of supervised probation imposed as a result of a felony conviction and such person is under the supervision of a state probation and parole officer, the court shall have presented to it the applicable discretionary probation violation guidelines pursuant to ยง [17.1-803](/vacode/17.1-803/).

1. The applicable discretionary probation violation guidelines shall be prepared by a state probation and parole officer on a form designated by the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission. If a party other than a probation and parole officer initiated the request for the revocation hearing, no probation violation guidelines are prepared and only the sentencing revocation report required by subsection A shall be submitted to the court.

2. The court shall review and consider the suitability of the applicable discretionary probation violation guidelines. Before imposing sentence, the court shall state for the record that such review and consideration have been accomplished and shall make the completed worksheets a part of the record of the case.

3. In any proceeding in which the court imposes a sentence that is either greater than or less than that indicated by the discretionary probation violation guidelines, the court shall provide a written explanation of such departure to be filed with the record of the case.

C. Within 30 days following the entry of a final order in a revocation proceeding, the clerk of the circuit court shall prepare and send to the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission a copy or copies of (i) the final order, (ii) the original sentencing revocation report, (iii) any applicable probation violation guideline worksheets prepared for such proceeding, and (iv) any written explanation regarding a departure from the probation violation guidelines pursuant to subsection B.

D. Failure to follow the provisions of this section or failure to follow these provisions in the prescribed manner shall not be reviewable on appeal and shall not be used for the basis of any other post-proceeding relief.

2022, cc. [569](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0569), [570](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0570).

