# § 19.2-392.6 (For contingent effective date see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. 524 and 542) Automatic sealing of offenses resulting in a deferred and dismissed disposition or conviction.

A. If a person was charged with an offense in violation of § [4.1-305](/vacode/4.1-305/) or former § [18.2-250.1](/vacode/18.2-250.1/), and such offense was deferred and dismissed as provided in § [4.1-305](/vacode/4.1-305/) or [18.2-251](/vacode/18.2-251/), such offense, including any records relating to such offense, shall be ordered to be automatically sealed in the manner set forth in § [19.2-392.7](/vacode/19.2-392.7/), subject to the provisions of subsections C and D.

B. If a person was convicted of a violation of any of the following sections, such conviction, including any records relating to such conviction, shall be ordered to be automatically sealed in the manner set forth in § [19.2-392.7](/vacode/19.2-392.7/), subject to the provisions of subsections C and D: § [4.1-305](/vacode/4.1-305/), [18.2-96](/vacode/18.2-96/), [18.2-103](/vacode/18.2-103/), [18.2-119](/vacode/18.2-119/), [18.2-120](/vacode/18.2-120/), or [18.2-134](/vacode/18.2-134/); a misdemeanor violation of § [18.2-248.1](/vacode/18.2-248.1/); or former § [18.2-250.1](/vacode/18.2-250.1/) or [18.2-415](/vacode/18.2-415/).

C. Subject to the provisions of subsection D, any offense listed under subsection A and any conviction listed under subsection B shall be ordered to be automatically sealed if seven years have passed since the date of the dismissal or conviction and the person charged with or convicted of such offense has not been convicted of violating any law of the Commonwealth that requires a report to the Central Criminal Records Exchange under subsection A of § [19.2-390](/vacode/19.2-390/) or any other state, the District of Columbia, or the United States or any territory thereof, excluding traffic infractions under Title 46.2, during that time period.

D. No offense listed under subsection A shall be automatically sealed if, on the date of the deferral or dismissal, the person was convicted of another offense that is not eligible for automatic sealing under subsection A or B. No conviction listed under subsection B shall be automatically sealed if, on the date of the conviction, the person was convicted of another offense that is not eligible for automatic sealing under subsection A or B.

E. This section shall not be construed as prohibiting a person from seeking sealing in the circuit court pursuant to the provisions of § [19.2-392.12](/vacode/19.2-392.12/).

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0524), [542](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0542).

