# § 19.2-163.02 Membership of Indigent Defense Commission; expenses.

The Virginia Indigent Defense Commission shall consist of 14 members as follows: the Chairman of the House Committee for Courts of Justice or his designee and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary or his designee who shall be members of the Courts of Justice committees; the chairman of the Virginia State Crime Commission or his designee; the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court or his designee; two attorneys officially designated by the Virginia State Bar; two persons appointed by the Governor; three persons appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; and three persons appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules. At least one of the appointments made by the Governor, one of the appointments made by the Speaker, and one of the appointments made by the Senate Committee on Rules, shall be an attorney in private practice with a demonstrated interest in indigent defense issues. Persons who are appointed by virtue of their office shall hold terms coincident with their terms of office. If the chairman of the Virginia State Crime Commission is (i) the chairman of the House Committee for Courts of Justice, then the vice-chairman of the Committee shall serve in the position designated for the Committee chairman or (ii) the chairman of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, then the Senate Committee on Rules, upon the recommendation of the chairman of the Committee, shall appoint a member of the Committee to serve in the position designated for the Committee chairman. All other members shall be appointed for terms of three years and may be reappointed.

The Commission shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its membership annually. The chairman or his designee shall preside at all regular and called meetings of the Commission and shall have no additional duties or authority unless set by statute or by resolution of the Commission and annually confirmed by the Commission. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The Commission shall meet at least four times each year. The meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever three of the members so request.

Members shall be paid reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Legislative members shall receive compensation as provided in § [30-19.12](/vacode/30-19.12/) and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive compensation for their services as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/).

2004, cc. [884](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0884), [921](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0921); 2005, cc. [176](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0176), [758](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0758); 2006, cc. [429](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0429), [501](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0501); 2008, c. [115](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0115).

