# § 19.2-368.20 Special order of escrow.

A. Any proceeds or profits received or to be received directly or indirectly, except property that may be forfeited to the Commonwealth pursuant to §§ [19.2-386.15](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/19.2-386.15/) through [19.2-386.31](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/19.2-386.31/), by a defendant or a transferee of that defendant from any source, as a direct or indirect result of his crime or sentence, or the notoriety which such crime or sentence has conferred upon him, shall be subject to a special order of escrow.

B. Income from the defendant's employment in a position unrelated to his crime or the notoriety which such crime has conferred upon him but obtained through the assistance of or rehabilitative training by correctional or mental health programs or personnel shall not be subject to a special order of escrow under this section, and nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or hinder the return of property belonging to victims of crime to its rightful owners. Any proceeds from a contract relating to a depiction or discussion of the defendant's crime in a movie, book, newspaper, magazine, radio or television production, or live entertainment or publication of any kind shall not be subject to a special order of escrow unless an integral part of the work is a depiction or discussion of the defendant's crime or an impression of the defendant's thoughts, opinions, or emotions regarding such crime.

C. Upon petition of the attorney for the Commonwealth filed at any time after conviction of such defendant or his acquittal by reason of insanity and after notice to the interested parties, a hearing upon the motion and a finding for the Commonwealth, for good cause shown, any circuit court in which the petition is filed shall order that such proceeds be subject to a special order of escrow.

1. The petition shall be filed in the circuit court of the jurisdiction where the defendant was convicted or acquitted by reason of insanity.

2. The petition shall set forth in general terms the causes for entry of the special order of escrow, and be signed by the attorney for the Commonwealth.

3. Upon the filing of the petition, the clerk shall forthwith issue a warrant directed to the sheriff or other law-enforcement officer of the county or city, commanding him to take the property into his possession and hold the same subject to further proceedings in the cause. If for any cause the warrant was not executed, other like warrants may be successively issued until one is executed. The officer serving the warrant shall take the property into his possession and forthwith return the warrant and report to the clerk in writing.

4. Any person concerned in interest may appear and make defense to the petition, which may be done by answer on oath.

5. When the case is ready for trial, such issues of fact as are made by the pleadings, or as the court may direct, the court shall determine the whole matter of law and fact.

6. Expenses and costs incurred in the proceedings shall be paid as the court, in its discretion, shall determine; except that no costs shall be adjudged against the Commonwealth.

An order issued under this section shall require that the defendant and the person with whom the defendant contracts pay to the Division any proceeds due the defendant under the contract and the proceeds shall be placed in a special escrow account for the victims of the defendant's crime.

1990, c. 549; 1992, c. 681; 2006, c. [414](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0414).

