# § 19.2-152.9 Preliminary protective orders.

A. Upon the filing of a petition alleging that (i) the petitioner is or has been, within a reasonable period of time, subjected to an act of violence, force, or threat, or (ii) a petition or warrant has been issued for the arrest of the alleged perpetrator for any criminal offense resulting from the commission of an act of violence, force, or threat, the court may issue a preliminary protective order against the alleged perpetrator in order to protect the health and safety of the petitioner or any family or household member of the petitioner. The order may be issued in an ex parte proceeding upon good cause shown when the petition is supported by an affidavit or sworn testimony before the judge or intake officer. If an ex parte order is issued without an affidavit or a completed form as prescribed by subsection D of § [19.2-152.8](/vacode/19.2-152.8/) being presented, the court, in its order, shall state the basis upon which the order was entered, including a summary of the allegations made and the court's findings. Immediate and present danger of any act of violence, force, or threat or evidence sufficient to establish probable cause that an act of violence, force, or threat has recently occurred shall constitute good cause.

A preliminary protective order may include any one or more of the following conditions to be imposed on the respondent:

1. Prohibiting acts of violence, force, or threat or criminal offenses that may result in injury to person or property;

2. Prohibiting such other contacts by the respondent with the petitioner or the petitioner's family or household members as the court deems necessary for the health and safety of such persons;

3. Such other conditions as the court deems necessary to prevent (i) acts of violence, force, or threat, (ii) criminal offenses that may result in injury to person or property, or (iii) communication or other contact of any kind by the respondent; and

4. Granting the petitioner the possession of any companion animal as defined in § [3.2-6500](/vacode/3.2-6500/) if such petitioner meets the definition of owner in § [3.2-6500](/vacode/3.2-6500/).

B. The court shall forthwith, but in all cases no later than the end of the business day on which the order was issued, enter and transfer electronically to the Virginia Criminal Information Network the respondent's identifying information and the name, date of birth, sex, and race of each protected person provided to the court. A copy of a preliminary protective order containing any such identifying information shall be forwarded forthwith to the primary law-enforcement agency responsible for service and entry of protective orders. Upon receipt of the order by the primary law-enforcement agency, the agency shall forthwith verify and enter any modification as necessary to the identifying information and other appropriate information required by the Department of State Police into the Virginia Criminal Information Network established and maintained by the Department pursuant to Chapter 2 (§ [52-12](/vacode/52-12/) et seq.) of Title 52 and the order shall be served forthwith on the alleged perpetrator in person as provided in § [16.1-264](/vacode/16.1-264/), and due return made to the court. However, if the order is issued by the circuit court, the clerk of the circuit court shall forthwith forward an attested copy of the order containing the respondent's identifying information and the name, date of birth, sex, and race of each protected person provided to the court to the primary law-enforcement agency providing service and entry of protective orders and upon receipt of the order, the primary law-enforcement agency shall enter the name of the person subject to the order and other appropriate information required by the Department of State Police into the Virginia Criminal Information Network established and maintained by the Department pursuant to Chapter 2 (§ [52-12](/vacode/52-12/) et seq.) of Title 52 and the order shall be served forthwith on the alleged perpetrator in person as provided in § [16.1-264](/vacode/16.1-264/). Upon service, the agency making service shall enter the date and time of service and other appropriate information required by the Department of State Police into the Virginia Criminal Information Network and make due return to the court. The preliminary order shall specify a date for the full hearing. The hearing shall be held within 15 days of the issuance of the preliminary order, unless the court is closed pursuant to § [16.1-69.35](/vacode/16.1-69.35/) or [17.1-207](/vacode/17.1-207/) and such closure prevents the hearing from being held within such time period, in which case the hearing shall be held on the next day not a Saturday, Sunday, legal holiday, or day on which the court is lawfully closed. If such court is closed pursuant to § [16.1-69.35](/vacode/16.1-69.35/) or [17.1-207](/vacode/17.1-207/), the preliminary protective order shall remain in full force and effect until it is dissolved by such court, until another preliminary protective order is entered, or until a protective order is entered. If the respondent fails to appear at this hearing because the respondent was not personally served, the court may extend the protective order for a period not to exceed six months. The extended protective order shall be served as soon as possible on the respondent. However, upon motion of the respondent and for good cause shown, the court may continue the hearing. The preliminary order shall remain in effect until the hearing. Upon request after the order is issued, the clerk shall provide the petitioner with a copy of the order and information regarding the date and time of service. The order shall further specify that either party may at any time file a motion with the court requesting a hearing to dissolve or modify the order. The hearing on the motion shall be given precedence on the docket of the court. Upon petitioner's motion to dissolve the preliminary protective order, a dissolution order may be issued ex parte by the court with or without a hearing. If an ex parte hearing is held, it shall be heard by the court as soon as practicable. If a dissolution order is issued ex parte, the court shall serve a copy of such dissolution order on respondent in conformity with §§ [8.01-286.1](/vacode/8.01-286.1/) and [8.01-296](/vacode/8.01-296/).

Upon receipt of the return of service or other proof of service pursuant to subsection C of § [16.1-264](/vacode/16.1-264/), the clerk shall forthwith forward an attested copy of the preliminary protective order to primary law-enforcement agency and the agency shall forthwith verify and enter any modification as necessary into the Virginia Criminal Information Network as described above. If the order is later dissolved or modified, a copy of the dissolution or modification order shall also be attested, forwarded forthwith to the primary law-enforcement agency responsible for service and entry of protective orders, and upon receipt of the order by the primary law-enforcement agency, the agency shall forthwith verify and enter any modification as necessary to the identifying information and other appropriate information required by the Department of State Police into the Virginia Criminal Information Network as described above and the order shall be served forthwith and due return made to the court.

C. The preliminary order is effective upon personal service on the alleged perpetrator. Except as otherwise provided, a violation of the order shall constitute contempt of court.

D. At a full hearing on the petition, the court may issue a protective order pursuant to § [19.2-152.10](/vacode/19.2-152.10/) if the court finds that the petitioner has proven the allegation that the petitioner is or has been, within a reasonable period of time, subjected to an act of violence, force, or threat by a preponderance of the evidence.

E. No fees shall be charged for filing or serving petitions pursuant to this section.

F. Neither a law-enforcement agency, the attorney for the Commonwealth, a court nor the clerk's office, nor any employee of them, may disclose, except among themselves, the residential address, telephone number, or place of employment of the person protected by the order or that of the family of such person, except to the extent that disclosure is (i) required by law or the Rules of the Supreme Court, (ii) necessary for law-enforcement purposes, or (iii) permitted by the court for good cause.

G. As used in this section, "copy" includes a facsimile copy.

H. Upon issuance of a preliminary protective order, the clerk of the court shall make available to the petitioner information that is published by the Department of Criminal Justice Services for victims of domestic violence or for petitioners in protective order cases.

1997, c. [831](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0831); 1998, cc. [569](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0569), [684](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0684); 1999, c. [371](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0371); 2001, c. [101](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0101); 2002, cc. [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0507), [810](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0810), [818](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0818); 2003, c. [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0730); 2008, cc. [73](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0073), [128](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0128), [246](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0246); 2009, cc. [341](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0341), [732](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0732); 2011, cc. [445](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0445), [480](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0480); 2014, c. [346](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0346); 2018, c. [652](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0652); 2019, cc. [197](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0197), [718](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0718); 2020, c. [137](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0137).

