# § 19.2-390 Reports to be made by local law-enforcement officers, conservators of the peace, clerks of court, Secretary of the Commonwealth and Corrections officials to State Police; material submitted by other agencies.

A. 1. Every state official or agency having the power to arrest, the sheriffs of counties, the police officials of cities and towns, and any other local law-enforcement officer or conservator of the peace having the power to arrest for a felony shall make a report to the Central Criminal Records Exchange, on forms provided by it, of any arrest, including those arrests involving the taking into custody of, or service of process upon, any person on charges resulting from an indictment, presentment or information, the arrest on capias or warrant for failure to appear, and the service of a warrant for another jurisdiction, for each charge when any person is arrested on any of the following charges:

a. Treason;

b. Any felony;

c. Any offense punishable as a misdemeanor under Title 54.1;

d. Any misdemeanor punishable by confinement in jail (i) under Title 18.2 or 19.2, or any similar ordinance of any county, city or town, (ii) under § [20-61](/vacode/20-61/), or (iii) under § [16.1-253.2](/vacode/16.1-253.2/); or

e. Any offense in violation of § [3.2-6570](/vacode/3.2-6570/), [4.1-309.1](/vacode/4.1-309.1/), [5.1-13](/vacode/5.1-13/), [15.2-1612](/vacode/15.2-1612/), [22.1-289.041](/vacode/22.1-289.041/), [46.2-339](/vacode/46.2-339/), [46.2-341.21](/vacode/46.2-341.21/), [46.2-341.24](/vacode/46.2-341.24/), [46.2-341.26:3](/vacode/46.2-341.26:3/), [46.2-817](/vacode/46.2-817/), [58.1-3141](/vacode/58.1-3141/), [58.1-4018.1](/vacode/58.1-4018.1/), [60.2-632](/vacode/60.2-632/), or [63.2-1509](/vacode/63.2-1509/).

The reports shall contain such information as is required by the Exchange and shall be accompanied by fingerprints of the individual arrested for each charge. Effective January 1, 2006, the corresponding photograph of the individual arrested shall accompany the report. Fingerprint cards prepared by a law-enforcement agency for inclusion in a national criminal justice file shall be forwarded to the Exchange for transmittal to the appropriate bureau. Nothing in this section shall preclude each local law-enforcement agency from maintaining its own separate photographic database. Fingerprints and photographs required to be taken pursuant to this subsection or subdivision A 3c of § [19.2-123](/vacode/19.2-123/) may be taken at the facility where the magistrate is located, including a regional jail, even if the accused is not committed to jail.

Law-enforcement agencies and clerks of court shall only submit reports to the Central Criminal Records Exchange only for those offenses enumerated in this subsection. Only reports received for those offenses enumerated in this subsection shall be included in the Central Criminal Records Exchange.

2. For persons arrested and released on summonses in accordance with subsection B of § [19.2-73](/vacode/19.2-73/) or § [19.2-74](/vacode/19.2-74/), such report shall not be required until (i) a conviction is entered and no appeal is noted or if an appeal is noted, the conviction is upheld upon appeal or the person convicted withdraws his appeal; (ii) the court defers or dismisses the proceeding pursuant to § [18.2-57.3](/vacode/18.2-57.3/), [18.2-251](/vacode/18.2-251/), or [19.2-303.2](/vacode/19.2-303.2/); or (iii) an acquittal by reason of insanity pursuant to § [19.2-182.2](/vacode/19.2-182.2/) is entered. Upon such conviction or acquittal, the court shall remand the individual to the custody of the office of the chief law-enforcement officer of the county or city. It shall be the duty of the chief law-enforcement officer, or his designee who may be the arresting officer, to ensure that such report is completed for each charge after a determination of guilt or acquittal by reason of insanity. The court shall require the officer to complete the report immediately following the person's conviction or acquittal, and the individual shall be discharged from custody forthwith, unless the court has imposed a jail sentence to be served by him or ordered him committed to the custody of the Commissioner of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services.

3. For persons arrested on a capias for any allegation of a violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for a felony offense pursuant to § [18.2-456](/vacode/18.2-456/), [19.2-306](/vacode/19.2-306/), or [53.1-165](/vacode/53.1-165/), a report shall be made to the Central Criminal Records Exchange pursuant to subdivision 1. Upon finding such person in violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for such felony offense, the court shall order that the fingerprints and photograph of such person be taken by a law-enforcement officer for each such offense and submitted to the Central Criminal Records Exchange.

4. For any person served with a show cause for any allegation of a violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for a felony offense pursuant to § [18.2-456](/vacode/18.2-456/), [19.2-306](/vacode/19.2-306/), or [53.1-165](/vacode/53.1-165/), such report to the Central Criminal Records Exchange shall not be required until such person is found to be in violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for such felony offense. Upon finding such person in violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for such felony offense, the court shall order that the fingerprints and photograph of such person be taken by a law-enforcement officer for each such offense and submitted to the Central Criminal Records Exchange.

5. If the accused is in custody when an indictment or presentment is found or made, or information is filed, and no process is awarded, the attorney for the Commonwealth shall so notify the court of such at the time of first appearance for each indictment, presentment, or information for which a report is required upon arrest pursuant to subdivision 1, and the court shall order that the fingerprints and photograph of the accused be taken for each offense by a law-enforcement officer or by the agency that has custody of the accused at the time of first appearance. The law-enforcement officer or agency taking the fingerprints and photograph shall submit a report to the Central Criminal Records Exchange for each offense.

B. Within 72 hours following the receipt of (i) a warrant or capias for the arrest of any person on a charge of a felony or (ii) a Governor's warrant of arrest of a person issued pursuant to § [19.2-92](/vacode/19.2-92/), the law-enforcement agency which received the warrant shall enter the person's name and other appropriate information required by the Department of State Police into the "information systems" known as the Virginia Criminal Information Network (VCIN), established and maintained by the Department pursuant to Chapter 2 (§ [52-12](/vacode/52-12/) et seq.) of Title 52 and the National Crime Information Center (NCIC), maintained by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The report shall include the person's name, date of birth, social security number and such other known information which the State Police or Federal Bureau of Investigation may require. Where feasible and practical, the magistrate or court issuing the warrant or capias may transfer information electronically into VCIN. When the information is electronically transferred to VCIN, the court or magistrate shall forthwith forward the warrant or capias to the local police department or sheriff's office. When criminal process has been ordered destroyed pursuant to § [19.2-76.1](/vacode/19.2-76.1/), the law-enforcement agency destroying such process shall ensure the removal of any information relating to the destroyed criminal process from the VCIN and NCIC.

B1. Within 72 hours following the receipt of a written statement issued by a parole officer pursuant to § [53.1-149](/vacode/53.1-149/) or [53.1-162](/vacode/53.1-162/) authorizing the arrest of a person who has violated the provisions of his post-release supervision or probation, the law-enforcement agency that received the written statement shall enter, or cause to be entered, the person's name and other appropriate information required by the Department of State Police into the "information systems" known as the Virginia Criminal Information Network (VCIN), established and maintained by the Department pursuant to Chapter 2 (§ [52-12](/vacode/52-12/) et seq.) of Title 52.

C. For offenses not charged on a summons in accordance with subsection B of § [19.2-73](/vacode/19.2-73/) or § [19.2-74](/vacode/19.2-74/), the clerk of each circuit court and district court shall make an electronic report to the Central Criminal Records Exchange of (i) any dismissal, including a dismissal pursuant to § [18.2-57.3](/vacode/18.2-57.3/), [18.2-251](/vacode/18.2-251/), or [19.2-303.2](/vacode/19.2-303.2/), indefinite postponement or continuance, charge still pending due to mental incompetency or incapacity, deferral, nolle prosequi, acquittal, or conviction of, including any sentence imposed, or failure of a grand jury to return a true bill as to, any person charged with an offense listed in subsection A, including any action that may have resulted from an indictment, presentment or information, or any finding that the person is in violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for a felony offense and (ii) any adjudication of delinquency based upon an act that, if committed by an adult, would require fingerprints to be filed pursuant to subsection A. For offenses listed in subsection A and charged on a summons in accordance with subsection B of § [19.2-73](/vacode/19.2-73/) or § [19.2-74](/vacode/19.2-74/), such electronic report by the clerk of each circuit court and district court to the Central Criminal Records Exchange may be submitted but shall not be required until (a) a conviction is entered and no appeal is noted or, if an appeal is noted, the conviction is upheld upon appeal or the person convicted withdraws his appeal; (b) the court defers or dismisses the proceeding pursuant to § [18.2-57.3](/vacode/18.2-57.3/), [18.2-251](/vacode/18.2-251/), or [19.2-303.2](/vacode/19.2-303.2/); or (c) an acquittal by reason of insanity pursuant to § [19.2-182.2](/vacode/19.2-182.2/) is entered. The clerk of each circuit court shall make an electronic report to the Central Criminal Records Exchange of any finding that a person charged on a summons is in violation of the terms or conditions of a suspended sentence or probation for a felony offense. Upon conviction of any person, including juveniles tried and convicted in the circuit courts pursuant to § [16.1-269.1](/vacode/16.1-269.1/), whether sentenced as adults or juveniles, for an offense for which registration is required as defined in § [9.1-902](/vacode/9.1-902/), the clerk shall within seven days of sentencing submit a report to the Sex Offender and Crimes Against Minors Registry. The report to the Registry shall include the name of the person convicted and all aliases that he is known to have used, the date and locality of the conviction for which registration is required, his date of birth, social security number, and last known address, and specific reference to the offense for which he was convicted. No report of conviction or adjudication in a district court shall be filed unless the period allowed for an appeal has elapsed and no appeal has been perfected. In the event that the records in the office of any clerk show that any conviction or adjudication has been nullified in any manner, he shall also make a report of that fact to the Exchange and, if appropriate, to the Registry. In addition, each clerk of a circuit court, upon receipt of certification thereof from the Supreme Court, shall report to the Exchange or the Registry, or to the law-enforcement agency making the arrest in the case of offenses not required to be reported to the Exchange, on forms provided by the Exchange or Registry, as the case may be, any reversal or other amendment to a prior sentence or disposition previously reported. When criminal process is ordered destroyed pursuant to § [19.2-76.1](/vacode/19.2-76.1/), the clerk shall report such action to the law-enforcement agency that entered the warrant or capias into the VCIN.

D. In addition to those offenses enumerated in subsection A, the Central Criminal Records Exchange may receive, classify, and file any other fingerprints, photographs, and records of confinement submitted to it by any correctional institution or the Department of Corrections. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, any such fingerprints, photographs, and records received by the Central Criminal Records Exchange from any correctional institution or the Department of Corrections may be classified and filed as criminal history record information.

E. Corrections officials, sheriffs, and jail superintendents of regional jails, responsible for maintaining correctional status information, as required by the regulations of the Department of Criminal Justice Services, with respect to individuals about whom reports have been made under the provisions of this chapter shall make reports of changes in correctional status information to the Central Criminal Records Exchange. The reports to the Exchange shall include any commitment to or release or escape from a state or local correctional facility, including commitment to or release from a parole or probation agency.

F. Any pardon, reprieve or executive commutation of sentence by the Governor shall be reported to the Exchange by the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth.

G. Officials responsible for reporting disposition of charges, and correctional changes of status of individuals under this section, including those reports made to the Registry, shall adopt procedures reasonably designed at a minimum (i) to ensure that such reports are accurately made as soon as feasible by the most expeditious means and in no instance later than 30 days after occurrence of the disposition or correctional change of status and (ii) to report promptly any correction, deletion, or revision of the information.

H. Upon receiving a correction, deletion, or revision of information, the Central Criminal Records Exchange shall notify all criminal justice agencies known to have previously received the information.

I. As used in this section:

"Chief law-enforcement officer" means the chief of police of cities and towns and sheriffs of counties, unless a political subdivision has otherwise designated its chief law-enforcement officer by appropriate resolution or ordinance, in which case the local designation shall be controlling.

"Electronic report" means a report transmitted to, or otherwise forwarded to, the Central Criminal Records Exchange in an electronic format approved by the Exchange. The report shall contain the name of the person convicted and all aliases which he is known to have used, the date and locality of the conviction, his date of birth, social security number, last known address, and specific reference to the offense including the Virginia Code section and any subsection, the Virginia crime code for the offense, and the offense tracking number for the offense for which he was convicted.

Code 1950, § 19.1-19.3; 1966, c. 669; 1968, c. 724; 1970, c. 191; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 107; 1974, c. 575; 1975, cc. 495, 584; 1976, cc. 336, 572, 771; 1978, cc. 467, 825; 1979, c. 378; 1981, c. 529; 1982, cc. 33, 535; 1990, cc. 100, 692; 1992, c. 391; 1993, cc. 448, 468, 926; 1994, cc. [362](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0362), [428](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0428), [432](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0432); 1996, cc. [429](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0429), [755](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0755), [806](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0806), [914](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0914); 1997, cc. [27](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0027), [509](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0509), [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0747), [801](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0801); 2001, cc. [516](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0516), [536](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0536), [565](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0565); 2003, cc. [27](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0027), [584](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0584), [727](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0727); 2004, cc. [284](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0284), [406](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0406); 2005, cc. [187](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0187), [229](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0229); 2008, cc. [73](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0073), [246](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0246); 2009, cc. [249](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0249), [813](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813), [840](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840); 2010, c. [273](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0273); 2013, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0614); 2018, cc. [51](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0051), [178](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0178); 2019, cc. [115](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0115), [782](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0782), [783](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0783); 2020, cc. [91](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0091), [92](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0092), [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860), [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0524), [542](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0542).

