# § 2.2-2400 Art and Architectural Review Board; members and officers; travel expenses; quorum; compensation; staff; report.

A. The Art and Architectural Review Board (the Board) is established as an advisory board, within the meaning of § [2.2-2100](/vacode/2.2-2100/), in the executive branch of state government. The Board shall consist of seven voting members as follows: the Director of the Department of Historic Resources, or his designee, serving as an ex officio member and six citizen members, appointed by the Governor. Of the citizen members, one shall be an architect who may be appointed from a list of two or more architects nominated by the governing board of the Virginia Society of the American Institute of Architects; one may be appointed from a list of two or more persons nominated by the governing board of the University of Virginia; one shall be a member of the board of trustees of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts; and three shall be appointed from the Commonwealth at large, one of whom shall be a painter or sculptor. Lists of nominees shall be submitted at least 60 days before the expiration of the member's term for which the nominations are being made in order to be considered by the Governor in making appointments pursuant to this section.

B. Following the initial staggering of terms, citizen members of the Board shall be appointed for terms of four years each, except appointments to fill vacancies, which shall be for the unexpired terms. No member shall serve for more than two consecutive four-year terms, except that any member appointed to the unexpired term of another shall be eligible to serve two consecutive four-year terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the manner of the original appointments. The Director of the Department of Historic Resources shall serve a term coincident with his term of office.

C. Annually, the Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman and may elect such other officers as the Board deems proper from among its membership. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.

D. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties as provided in § [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/).

E. The Department of General Services shall provide assistance to the Board in the undertaking of its responsibilities.

F. The Board shall submit a biennial report to the Governor and General Assembly on or before October 1 of each even-numbered year.

Code 1919, § 581; 1922, p. 757; 1927, p. 106; 1932, p. 37; 1938, p. 724; Michie Code 1942, § 585(64); R.P. 1948, § 9-7; 1964, c. 234; 1975, c. 510; 1976, c. 484; 1978, c. 580, §§ 2.1-488.1, 2.1-488.6; 1979, c. 66; 1981, c. 221; 1984, c. 734, § 2.1-488.2:1; 1985, c. 448; 1989, c. 656; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2004, c. [650](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0650); 2011, cc. [691](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691), [714](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714); 2020, c. [114](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0114).

