# ยง 2.2-2317 Appointment and duties of Executive Director.

The Governor shall appoint an Executive Director of the Authority, who shall serve as President and chief executive officer of the Authority. The Executive Director shall not be a member of the Board. The Governor shall set the salary and other compensation of the Executive Director, and shall approve any changes in the Executive Director's salary or compensation. The Executive Director shall serve as the ex officio secretary of the Board and shall administer, manage and direct the affairs and activities of the Authority. He shall attend meetings of the Board, shall keep a record of the proceedings of the Board and shall maintain and be custodian of all books, documents and papers of the Authority, the minute book of the Authority and its official seal. He may cause copies to be made of all minutes and other records and documents of the Authority and may give certificates under seal of the Authority to the effect that the copies are true copies, and all persons dealing with the Authority may rely upon the certificates. He shall also perform other duties as is necessary to carry out the purposes of this article. The Executive Director shall employ or retain such agents or employees subordinate to him as may be necessary to fulfill the duties of the Authority as conferred upon the Executive Director. Employees of the Authority, including the Executive Director, shall be eligible for membership in the Virginia Retirement System and participation in all of the health and related insurance and other benefits, including premium conversion and flexible benefits, available to state employees as provided by law.

1999, cc. [852](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0852), [881](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0881), ยง 2.1-548.58; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2007, c. [779](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0779).

