# ยง 2.2-2367 Board of directors; members.

A. The Authority shall be governed by a board of directors consisting of 11 members as follows: (i) the Secretary of Health and Human Resources or his designee; (ii) the Chair of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations or his designee and the Chair of the House Committee on Appropriations or his designee; (iii) an elected member of the governing body of a participating locality, to be selected from a list of three submitted jointly by the Virginia Association of Counties and the Virginia Municipal League; (iv) one representative of a community services board or behavioral health authority serving an urban or suburban region containing participating localities and one representative of a community services board or behavioral health authority serving a rural region containing participating localities, each to be selected from lists of three submitted by the Virginia Association of Community Services Boards; (v) one sheriff of a participating locality, to be selected from a list of three submitted by the Virginia Sheriffs' Association; (vi) one licensed, practicing county or city attorney of a participating locality, to be selected from a list of three submitted by the Local Government Attorneys of Virginia; (vii) two medical professionals with expertise in public and behavioral health administration or opioid use disorders and their treatment; and (viii) one representative of the addiction and recovery community.

The member appointed pursuant to clause (i) shall serve ex officio, and the members appointed pursuant to clauses (iii) through (viii) shall be appointed by the Governor. If the term of the office to which a member appointed pursuant to clause (iii) or (v) was elected expires prior to the expiration of his term as a member of the board, the Governor may authorize such member to complete the remainder of his term as a member or may appoint a new member who satisfies the criteria of clause (iii) or (v), as applicable, to complete the remainder of the term.

B. 1. After an initial staggering of terms, members of the Board shall serve terms of four years. No member shall be eligible to serve more than two terms. Any appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. A person appointed to fill a vacancy may be appointed to serve two additional terms.

2. Ex officio members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.

C. The Board shall elect annually a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. The chairman, or in his absence the vice-chairman, shall preside at all meetings of the Board.

D. A majority of the members of the Board serving at any one time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

E. The Board shall meet annually or more frequently at the call of the chairman.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [306](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0306), [307](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0307).

