# § 2.2-2239.2 Advisory Committee on International Trade.

A. The Board shall establish an Advisory Committee on International Trade (the Committee) consisting of the Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, serving as an ex officio member with voting privileges and whose term is coincident with his term of office, and nine nonlegislative citizen members as follows:

1. One member who is a member of the Board of Commissioners of the Virginia Port Authority and two nonlegislative citizen members possessing experience or expertise in international trade or trade promotion appointed by the Governor and approved by the General Assembly;

2. Five nonlegislative citizen members possessing experience or expertise in international trade or trade promotion appointed by the Joint Rules Committee; and

3. One nonlegislative citizen member of the Board appointed by the Chairman of the Board.

The Virginia Manufacturing Association shall submit to the Governor and the Joint Rules Committee a list of 12 recommendations for appointments to the Committee. One of the Governor's appointments pursuant to subdivision 1 shall be made from such list, and two of the Joint Rules Committee's appointments pursuant to subdivision 2 shall be made from such list.

B. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed. Members appointed to the Committee shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). Administrative and staff support for the Committee shall be provided by the Authority upon approval of the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. The Committee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.

C. The Committee shall advise the Board on all matters relating to international trade and trade promotion and shall make recommendations upon request of the Board.

2017, cc. [804](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0804), [824](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0824); 2018, c. [829](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0829).

