# ยง 2.2-5402 Powers and duties of designated agency.

The designated agency shall have the following powers and duties to:

1. Coordinate state activities designed to reduce poverty.

2. Cooperate with agencies of the Commonwealth and the federal government in reducing poverty and implementing community, social and economic programs.

3. Receive and expend funds for any purpose authorized by this chapter.

4. Enter into contracts with and to award grants to public and private nonprofit agencies and organizations.

5. Develop a state plan based on needs identified by community action agencies and community action statewide organizations.

6. Fund community action agencies and community action statewide organizations and to adopt regulations.

7. Provide assistance to local governments or private organizations for the purpose of establishing and operating a community action agency.

8. Provide technical assistance to community action agencies to improve program planning, program development, administration and the mobilization of public and private resources.

9. Require community action agencies and community action statewide organizations to generate local contributions of cash or in-kind services as the agency may establish by regulation.

10. Convene public meetings that provide citizens the opportunity to comment on public policies and programs to reduce poverty.

11. Advise the Governor and the General Assembly of the nature and extent of poverty in the Commonwealth and to make recommendations concerning changes in state and federal policies and programs.

1982, c. 667, ยง 2.1-590; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

