# ยง 2.2-2337 Definitions.

As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Area of Operation" means land owned by the Commonwealth at Fort Monroe.

"Authority" means the Fort Monroe Authority.

"Board" means the Board of Trustees created in ยง [2.2-2338](/vacode/2.2-2338/).

"Bonds" means any bonds, notes, interim certificates, debentures, or other obligations issued by the Authority pursuant to this article.

"City of Hampton" or "City" means the City of Hampton, Virginia, a municipal corporation of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

"Design Standards" means the standards developed as a requirement of the Programmatic Agreement and referred to in that document as the "Historic Preservation Manual and Design Standards" which govern the restoration, rehabilitation, and renovation of the contributing elements to the Fort Monroe National Historic Landmark District and new construction, additions, and reconstruction of buildings so they are compatible with the overall character of the District, as they may be adopted or amended from time to time.

"Facility" means a particular building or structure or particular buildings or structures, including all equipment, appurtenances, and accessories necessary or appropriate for the operation of such facility.

"Fort Monroe Master Plan" or "Master Plan" means the plan that identifies the long-term vision for the reuse of the Area of Operation, key implementation projects, and a detailed implementation strategy for attracting new uses and investment to the Area of Operation as approved by the Authority and produced in accordance with the public participation plan as adopted by the Authority.

"Fort Monroe Reuse Plan" or "Reuse Plan" means the document created by the Fort Monroe Federal Area Development Authority and adopted as an official operating document on August 20, 2008, as it may be amended from time to time.

"Programmatic Agreement for the Closure and Disposal of Fort Monroe, Va." or "Programmatic Agreement" means that certain agreement, as it may be amended from time to time, entered into among the U.S. Army, the Virginia State Historic Preservation Officer, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Fort Monroe Federal Area Development Authority and the National Park Service and signed by all Signatory Parties as of April 27, 2009, pursuant to ยง 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act.

"Project" means any specific enterprise undertaken by the Authority, including the facilities as defined in this article, and all other property, real or personal, or any interest therein, necessary or appropriate for the operation of such property.

"Real property" means all lands, including improvements and fixtures thereon, and property of any nature appurtenant thereto, or used in connection therewith, and every estate, interest, and right, legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years and liens by way of judgment, mortgage, or otherwise and the indebtedness secured by such liens.

"State Memorandum of Understanding" means an agreement between the Authority, the Secretary of Administration, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Governor, on behalf of all state agencies, to protect Fort Monroe and its historic, cultural, and natural assets by carefully implementing the plans, stipulations, requirements, and obligations under the Programmatic Agreement for nonfederal lands following the transfer of properties from the United States Army to the Commonwealth.

"Trustees" means the members of the Board of Trustees of the Authority.

2011, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0716); 2012, cc. [436](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0436), [482](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0482); 2014, cc. [676](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0676), [681](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0681); 2019, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0038), [389](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0389).

