# ยง 2.2-2374 Opioid Abatement Fund.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special, nonreverting fund to be known as the Opioid Abatement Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund," to be administered by the Authority. All funds appropriated to the Fund, all funds designated by the Attorney General under ยง [2.2-507.3](/vacode/2.2-507.3/) from settlements, judgments, verdicts, and other court orders relating to claims regarding the manufacturing, marketing, distribution, or sale of opioids, and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on the Fund's behalf shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund at the end of each fiscal year, including interest thereon, shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund, which may consist of grants or loans, shall be authorized by majority vote of the Board.

B. Moneys in the Fund shall be used to provide grants and loans to any agency of the Commonwealth or participating locality for the purposes determined by the Authority in accordance with this article and in consultation with the Office of the Attorney General. The Authority shall develop guidelines, procedures, and criteria for the application for and award of grants or loans in consultation with the Office of the Attorney General. Such guidelines, procedures, and criteria shall comply with the terms of any applicable settlement, judgment, verdict, or other court order, or any agreement related thereto between the Attorney General and participating localities.

C. The Authority shall fund all staffing and administrative costs from the Fund. Its expenditures for staffing and administration shall be limited to those that are reasonable for carrying out the purposes of this article.

D. For every deposit to the Fund, the Authority shall allocate a portion to the following purposes:

1. Fifteen percent shall be restricted for use by state agencies;

2. Fifteen percent shall be restricted for use by participating localities, provided that if the terms of a settlement, judgment, verdict, or other court order, or any agreement related thereto between the Attorney General and participating localities, require this portion to be distributed according to a local apportionment formula, this portion shall be distributed in accordance with such formula;

3. Thirty-five percent shall be restricted for use for regional efforts; and

4. Thirty-five percent shall be unrestricted. Unrestricted funds may be used to fund the Authority's staffing and administrative costs and may be distributed for use by state agencies, by participating localities, or for regional efforts in addition to the amounts set forth in subdivisions 1, 2, and 3, provided that the Authority shall ensure that such funds are used to accomplish the purposes of this article or invested under subsection F.

E. In distributing money from the Fund under subsection D, the Authority shall balance immediate and anticipated needs with projected receipts of funds to best accomplish the purposes for which the Authority is established.

F. The Board may designate any amount from the Fund to be invested, reinvested, and managed by the Board of the Virginia Retirement System as provided in ยง [51.1-124.40](/vacode/51.1-124.40/). The State Treasurer is not liable for losses suffered by the Virginia Retirement System on investments made under the authority of this section.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [306](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0306), [307](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0307).

