# ยง 2.2-135 Limitations and requirements.

A. Each gubernatorial commission shall be created by executive order. The executive order shall specify (i) the specific duties of the commission, (ii) the date of creation, (iii) the date of expiration, (iv) the sources from which staff support are to be provided and a reasonable estimate of the amount of staff support expected over the lifetime of the commission, (v) an estimate of the costs to be incurred, and (vi) the source of funding.

B. Funding for gubernatorial commissions shall be provided only from funds (i) appropriated for the Governor's discretionary use, (ii) appropriated for the purposes for which the task force was established, or (iii) contributed by the private sector for the purposes for which the task force was established. Staff support for gubernatorial commissions may be provided by agencies or institutions with related purposes.

C. Gubernatorial commissions shall be created for a period not to exceed one year. Upon reevaluation, a commission may be extended one time by issuance of a new executive order for a period not to exceed one additional year. A commission shall not extend beyond the term of the Governor under whom it is created.

D. The Governor shall make a report every six months to the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations and House Committee on Appropriations specifying for each gubernatorial commission the amount and costs of staff support provided and the sources of the staff support.

1984, c. 615, ยง 2.1-51.37; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

