# § 2.2-2816 Liability of salary of officer for debt he owes Commonwealth; how enforced; when officer's right to file petition barred.

A. Whenever any officer, other than one whose office is created by the Constitution of Virginia, is indebted to the Commonwealth for money collected by him or improperly drawn by him or upon his order from the state treasury during his term of office and, after payment of such indebtedness is demanded by the Comptroller, such officer continues in default, the Comptroller shall not issue his warrant for, nor shall the State Treasurer pay, any part of the salary due, or to become due, to such officer until he has made good his default. He may, however, file his petition in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond against the Comptroller, asserting his claim to his salary, and asking for payment thereof. The Comptroller shall answer the petition, and the proceedings shall be held according to the provisions of Article 18 (§ [8.01-192](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-192/) et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 8.01 and § [8.01-255](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-255/). If it is found that the petitioner is indebted, the Commonwealth shall be credited on his salary then due with the amount of such indebtedness and if, after such credit is given, there is a balance in his favor, judgment shall be rendered on his behalf. If the indebtedness exceeds his salary then due, judgment for the excess shall be rendered against him and the amount thereof, unless sooner paid, shall be credited to the Commonwealth on his salary thereafter becoming due. The Comptroller shall issue his warrant on the State Treasurer for the payment of any judgment rendered on behalf of the petitioner. In the proceeding by petition the Attorney General shall represent the Commonwealth, unless he is interested, in which case the Comptroller shall employ other counsel to represent the Commonwealth.

B. If the officer fails to file a petition under this section within twelve months after payment of any installment of his salary is withheld, his right to file the petition shall be barred. In such case the Comptroller shall credit the Commonwealth on the officer's salary with the amount of his indebtedness, and make that fact appear on the books of his office.

Code 1950, §§ 14-3, 14-4; 1964, cc. 386, §§ 14.1-3, 14.1-4; 1998, c. [872](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872), § 2.1-20.7; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

