# § 2.2-2423 Virginia Geographic Information Network Advisory Board; membership; terms; quorum; compensation and expenses.

A. The Virginia Geographic Information Network Advisory Board (the Board) is hereby established as an advisory board, within the meaning of § [2.2-2100](/vacode/2.2-2100/), in the executive branch of state government. The Board shall advise the Geographic Information Network Division (the Division) of the Department of Emergency Management on issues related to the exercise of the Division's powers and duties.

B. The Board shall consist of 19 members appointed as follows: nine nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor that consist of one agency director from one of the natural resources agencies, one official from a baccalaureate public institution of higher education in the Commonwealth, one elected official representing a local government in the Commonwealth, one member of the Virginia Association of Surveyors, one representative of a utility or transportation industry utilizing geographic data, two representatives of private businesses with expertise and experience in the establishment, operation, and maintenance of geographic information systems, and two county, city, town, or regional government geographic information system (GIS) directors or managers representing diverse regions of the Commonwealth; four members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; two members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; the Chief Information Officer, the State Coordinator of Emergency Management, the Commissioner of Highways, and the Chief Executive Officer of the Economic Development Partnership Authority or their designees who shall serve as ex officio, voting members. Gubernatorial appointees may be nonresidents of the Commonwealth. All members of the Board appointed by the Governor shall be confirmed by each house of the General Assembly. The agency director and official from a baccalaureate public institution of higher education in the Commonwealth appointed by the Governor may each designate a member of his organization as an alternate who may attend meetings in his place and be counted as a member of the Board for the purposes of a quorum.

Any members of the Board who are representatives of private businesses that provide geographic information services, and their companies, are precluded from contracting to provide goods or services to the Division.

C. Legislative members' terms shall be coincident with their terms of office. Following the initial staggering of terms, the gubernatorial appointees to the Board shall serve five-year terms, except for the two GIS directors or managers, who shall serve two-year terms. Members appointed by the Governor shall serve no more than two consecutive five-year terms, except the two GIS directors or managers shall serve no more than two consecutive two-year terms. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility to serve.

D. The Board shall elect from its membership a chairman, vice-chairman, and any other officers deemed necessary. The duties and terms of the officers shall be prescribed by the members. A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall meet at least quarterly or at the call of its chairman or the State Coordinator of Emergency Management.

E. Legislative members of the Board shall receive such compensation as provided in § [30-19.12](/vacode/30-19.12/) and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive such compensation as provided in § [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) for their services. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Virginia Geographic Information Network Division of the Department of Emergency Management.

F. The Geographic Information Network Division shall provide staff support to the Board.

1997, c. [817](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0817), § 2.1-563.41; 1999, cc. [412](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0412), [421](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0421), [433](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0433); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2003, cc. [981](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0981), [1021](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1021); 2004, c. [1000](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000); 2010, c. [869](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0869); 2014, c. [283](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0283); 2020, cc. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0036), [175](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0175), [423](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0423).

