# ยง 2.2-2472.2 Minimum levels of fiscal support from WIOA Adult and Dislocated Worker funds by local workforce development boards; incentives.

A. Each local workforce development board shall allocate a minimum of 40 percent of WIOA Adult and Dislocated Worker funds to training services as defined under ยง 134(c)(3)(D) of the WIOA that lead to recognized postsecondary education and workforce credentials aligned with in-demand industry sectors or occupations in the local area or region. Beginning October 1, 2016, and biannually thereafter, the Secretary of Labor shall submit a report to the Board evaluating the rate of the expenditure of WIOA Adult and Dislocated Worker funds under this section.

B. Failure by a local workforce development board to meet the required training expenditure percentage requirement shall result in sanctions, to increase in severity for each year of noncompliance. These sanctions may include corrective action plans; ineligibility to receive state-issued awards, additional WIOA incentives, or sub-awards; the recapturing and reallocation of a percentage of the local area board's Adult and Dislocated Worker funds; or for boards with recurring noncompliance, development of a reorganization plan through which the Governor would appoint and certify a new local board.

C. The Virginia Community College System, in consultation with the Governor, shall develop a formula providing for 30 percent of WIOA Adult and Dislocated Worker funds reserved by the Governor for statewide activities to be used solely for providing incentives to postsecondary workforce training institutions through local workforce development boards to accelerate the increase of workforce credential attainment by participants. Fiscal incentive awards provided under this section must be expended on training activities that lead participants to a postsecondary education or workforce credential that is aligned with in-demand industry sectors or occupations within each local workforce area. Apprenticeship-related instruction shall be included as a qualifying training under this subsection if such instruction is provided through a postsecondary education institution.

2015, cc. [275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0275), [292](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0292); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [453](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0453).

