# § 2.2-5205 Community policy and management teams; membership; immunity from liability.

The community policy and management team to be appointed by the local governing body shall include, at a minimum, at least one elected official or appointed official or his designee from the governing body of a locality that is a member of the team and the local agency heads or their designees of the following community agencies: community services board established pursuant to § [37.2-501](/vacode/37.2-501/), juvenile court services unit, department of health, department of social services, and local school division. The team shall also include a representative of a private organization or association of providers for children's or family services if such organizations or associations are located within the locality and a parent representative. Parent representatives who are employed by a public or private program that receives funds pursuant to this chapter or agencies represented on a community policy and management team may serve as a parent representative provided that parent representatives who are not employed by a public or private program that receives funds pursuant to this chapter or agencies represented on a community policy and management team are prioritized for participation where practicable. Those persons appointed to represent community agencies shall be authorized to make policy and funding decisions for their agencies.

The local governing body may appoint other members to the team, including, but not limited to, a local government official, a local law-enforcement official, and representatives of other public agencies.

When any combination of counties, cities or counties, and cities establishes a community policy and management team, the membership requirements previously set out shall be adhered to by the team as a whole.

Persons who serve on the team shall be immune from any civil liability for decisions made about the appropriate services for a family or the proper placement or treatment of a child who comes before the team, unless it is proven that such person acted with malicious intent. Any person serving on such team who does not represent a public agency shall file a statement of economic interests as set out in § [2.2-3117](/vacode/2.2-3117/) of the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (§ [2.2-3100](/vacode/2.2-3100/) et seq.). Persons representing public agencies shall file such statements if required to do so pursuant to the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act.

Persons serving on the team who are parent representatives or who represent private organizations or associations of providers for children's or family services shall abstain from decision-making involving individual cases or agencies in which they have either a personal interest, as defined in § [2.2-3101](/vacode/2.2-3101/) of the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act, or a fiduciary interest.

1992, cc. 837, 880, § 2.1-751; 1995, c. [190](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0190); 1999, cc. [644](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0644), [669](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0669); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2022, cc. [418](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0418), [419](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0419).

