# ยง 2.2-313 Reports.

A. The State Inspector General shall prepare an annual report to the Governor and the General Assembly summarizing the activities of the Office. Such report shall include, but need not be limited to: (i) a description of any significant problems, abuses, and deficiencies related to the management or operation of state agencies or nonstate agencies during the reporting period; (ii) a description of the recommendations for any corrective actions made by the Office during the reporting period with respect to significant problems, abuses, or deficiencies identified; (iii) a summary of matters referred to the attorneys for the Commonwealth and law-enforcement agencies and actions taken on them during the reporting period; (iv) information concerning the numbers of complaints received and types of investigations completed by the Office during the reporting period; (v) the development and maintenance of internal audit programs in state agencies and nonstate agencies; and (vi) the results of any state agency performance reviews, including a summary of any findings or recommendations for improving the efficiency of state agencies. The annual report shall cover the period July 1 until June 30 of the immediately preceding fiscal year. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, annual reports shall be transmitted directly to the Governor and the General Assembly.

B. The State Inspector General shall notify the Governor's chief of staff, the Speaker, Majority Leader, and Minority Leader of the House of Delegates, and the President pro tempore, Majority Leader, and Minority Leader of the Senate of problems, abuses, or deficiencies relating to the management or operation of a state agency or nonstate agency.

C. The State Inspector General shall keep the appropriate Secretaries advised of the Office's activities as they relate to each respective Secretary on at least a quarterly basis, and of any significant problems, abuses, or deficiencies relating to the management or operation of a state agency within each such Secretary's area of responsibility. However, when the State Inspector General becomes aware of significant problems, abuses, or deficiencies relating to the management or operation of a Secretary's office, the State Inspector General shall report the same immediately to the Governor's chief of staff.

D. The State Inspector General may conduct such additional investigations and make such reports relating to the management and operation of state agencies as are, in the judgment of the State Inspector General, necessary or desirable.

E. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the reports, information, or documents required by or under this section shall be transmitted directly to the Governor's chief of staff and the General Assembly by the State Inspector General.

F. Records that are confidential under federal or state law shall be maintained as confidential by the State Inspector General and shall not be further disclosed, except as required by law.

2011, cc. [798](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0798), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0871); 2013, cc. [717](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0717), [723](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0723).

