# ยง 2.2-5105 (Expires July 1, 2026) Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Basic employment" means employment in an industry sector or function that directly or indirectly derives more than 50 percent of its revenue from out-of-state sources.

"Board" means the Virginia Growth and Opportunity Board as may be established under law.

"Capital investment" means an investment in real property or tangible personal property, or both, by an eligible company within the Commonwealth. Expenditures for the maintenance or repair of existing machinery, tools, and real property shall not constitute a capital investment; however, expenditures for the replacement of property shall not be ineligible for designation as a capital investment if such replacement results in a measurable increase in productivity.

"Certified company" means a Virginia employer that has been certified by the Partnership to have (i) created or caused to be created at least 200 net new basic employment jobs in the Commonwealth that are located in the participating localities with average salaries at least equal to the average wage in the participating localities and (ii) made a capital investment of at least $25 million in the participating localities. However, if the Board makes a written finding of significant fiscal distress in or extraordinary economic opportunity for the participating localities, the Board may modify the job creation and capital investment requirements for a certified company to not fewer than 25 net new basic employment jobs and not less than $1 million of capital investment.

"Collaborative economic development plan" means an agreement among two or more localities that identifies commitments made by each locality to implement a collaborative approach to economic development, whether the collaboration relates to general economic development and diversification efforts by the participating localities or relates to specific economic development needs, including infrastructure and workforce training, of a company. Such plan shall address the commitments made by the participating localities, which shall include the sharing of costs and local tax revenues by the participating localities and timing thereof, and how, if awarded, moneys from the Fund will be distributed among and used by the participating localities. If the plan relates to general economic development and diversification efforts, the plan shall be updated at the time of application for a grant from the Fund to indicate which company or companies, as a result of the efforts, are eligible to be certified companies. Parties to the plan may include political subdivisions and bodies corporate and politic, in addition to the participating localities. Such plan shall be subject to approval by the Partnership.

"Fund" means the Virginia Collaborative Economic Development Performance Grant Fund created pursuant to ยง [2.2-5108](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-5108/).

"New job" means employment of an indefinite duration at the eligible facility, created as the direct result of the capital investment, for which the standard fringe benefits are provided by the firm for the employee, requiring a minimum of either (i) 35 hours of an employee's time a week for the entire normal year of the firm's operations, which "normal year" shall consist of at least 48 weeks, or (ii) 1,680 hours per year. Seasonal or temporary positions, positions created when a job function is shifted from an existing location in the Commonwealth to such facility, retail positions, and positions with construction, contractors, suppliers, and similar multiplier or spin-off jobs shall not qualify as new jobs under this chapter. Up to 100 full-time employees whose positions existed at a company prior to its certification as a certified company may be used to determine the number of new jobs created if the wages of the existing employees increase by more than 10 percent because of the new capital investment to be made by the company.

"Participating localities" means two or more localities that participate in a collaborative economic development plan.

"Partnership" means the Virginia Economic Development Partnership Authority.

"Secretary" means the Secretary of Commerce and Trade.

2016, cc. [776](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0776), [777](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0777).

