# ยง 2.2-445 Department and child-placing agency; duties; information to be provided to biological parent, adoptive parent, or foster parent; access to departmental computer networks.

A. The Department or local department and a child-placing agency shall do all of the following:

1. Upon the Ombudsman's request, grant the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman's designee access to all information, records, and documents in the possession of the Department or local department or child-placing agency that the Ombudsman considers relevant and necessary in an investigation.

2. Assist the Ombudsman to obtain the necessary releases of those documents that are specifically restricted.

3. Upon the Ombudsman's request, provide the Ombudsman with progress reports concerning the administrative processing of a complaint.

4. Upon the Ombudsman's request, provide the Ombudsman the information requested under subdivision 1 or notification within 10 business days after the request that the Department or local department has determined that release of the information would violate federal or state law.

B. The Department or local department, an attorney involved with an adoption, and a child-placing agency shall provide information to a biological parent, prospective adoptive parent, or foster parent regarding the provisions of this chapter.

C. The Ombudsman shall have access, in the Ombudsman's own office, to departmental computer networks pertaining to protective services, foster care, adoption, juvenile delinquency, and the central registry, unless otherwise prohibited by state or federal law or if the release of the information to the Ombudsman would jeopardize federal funding. The cost of implementing this subsection shall be negotiated among the Office and the custodians of such networks.

2020, c. [1090](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1090).

