# ยง 2.2-2751 Program enrollment; participating employer liability and status under the Program.

A. 1. Any employer that is not an eligible employer may facilitate the participation of its eligible employees in the Program. However, such employer shall take all steps necessary to ensure that such facilitation does not constitute an employee benefit plan regulated under Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).

2. Any eligible employee whose employer does not facilitate his participation in the Program pursuant to subdivision 1 or any self-employed individual may participate in the Program under terms and conditions prescribed by the Board.

3. No eligible employee or self-employed individual shall be permitted to participate in the Program unless such individual has Virginia taxable income, as defined in Article 2 (ยง [58.1-320](/vacode/58.1-320/) et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 58.1.

B. The Program shall be established and enrollment of eligible employers shall begin on July 1, 2023, or as soon thereafter as practicable. The Board shall establish an implementation timeline under which eligible employers shall enroll their eligible employees in the Program.

C. The Board shall develop a Program rollout timeline, including deadlines for the enrollment of eligible employers. The Board may alter the rollout timeline in its discretion, though in all instances any alterations of established rollout dates shall include reasonable notice to affected eligible employers.

D. Participation in the Program shall be mandatory for eligible employers. Eligible employers shall enroll in the Program in accordance with the timeline established by the Plan. Eligible employers shall facilitate a payroll deposit retirement savings agreement pursuant to this chapter for their eligible employees.

E. Each eligible employee of an eligible employer shall be enrolled in the Program unless the employee elects not to participate in the Program in a manner prescribed by the Board.

F. A participating employee may also terminate his participation in the Program at any time in a manner prescribed by the Board.

G. Participating employers shall not have any liability for a participating employee's decision to participate in or opt out of the Program or for the investment decisions of participating employees whose assets are deposited in the Program.

H. Participating employers shall not be a fiduciary, or considered to be a fiduciary, over the Program. The Program is a state-administered program, not an employer-sponsored program. If the Program is subsequently found to be preempted by any federal law or regulation, participating employers shall not be liable as Program sponsors. A participating employer shall not bear responsibility for the administration, investment, or investment performance of the Program. A participating employer shall not be liable with regard to investment returns, Program design, and benefits paid to Program participants.

I. A participating employer shall not have civil liability, and no cause of action shall arise against a participating employer, for acting pursuant to this chapter.

J. The Board shall develop and provide to participating employees and participating individuals Program summaries and other information concerning participation in the Program, including information on Program investments and fees, and the consequences of contributing to an IRA, and a statement that the Program is not an employer-sponsored retirement plan, as required by applicable law and as otherwise determined by the Board.

K. Participating employers shall retain the option at all times to set up any type of employer retirement plan, including plans qualified under ยง 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k), or 408(p), of the Internal Revenue Code, in which event such employer shall no longer be considered an eligible employer and shall cease facilitating contributions to the Program in accordance with such procedures as shall be established by the Board.

L. No employer shall be permitted to contribute to the Program or to endorse or otherwise promote the Program.

M. The Program shall be exempt from the provisions of subsection C of ยง [40.1-29](/vacode/40.1-29/).

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [556](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0556).

