# ยง 2.2-2559 (Expires July 1, 2024) Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman and vice-chairman.

A. The Commission shall have a total membership of 27 members that shall consist of six legislative members, seven nonlegislative citizen members, and 14 ex officio members. Members shall be appointed as follows: three members of the Senate, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; three members of the House of Delegates, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; and seven nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor. The Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia, the Chief Workforce Advisor to the Governor, the Chief Data Officer of the Commonwealth, the Secretary of Administration, the Secretary of Health and Human Resources, the Secretary of Public Safety and Homeland Security, the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary of the Commonwealth, the Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, the Secretary of Natural and Historic Resources, the Secretary of Commerce and Trade, the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Veterans and Defense Affairs, and the Secretary of Transportation, or their designees, shall serve ex officio with voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor shall represent the seven geographic areas of the Commonwealth. Of the nonlegislative citizen members, at least one shall represent a baccalaureate public institution of higher education in the Commonwealth, at least one shall be an elected official representing a local government in the Commonwealth, and at least one shall represent a private business with expertise and experience in the establishment, operation, and maintenance of a data intelligence platform.

B. Each nonlegislative citizen member may designate a representative of his organization as an alternate. Each alternate may attend meetings in place of the appointed member and shall be counted as a member of the Commission for purposes of establishing a quorum. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Commission, and their alternates, shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.

C. Legislative members and ex officio members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed. After the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. No Senate member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms, no House member shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms, and no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.

D. The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership.

E. Any members of the Commission who represent private businesses that provide data-related products and services, and such private businesses that the members represent are precluded from contracting to provide goods or services to the Office of Data Governance and Analytics.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [314](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0314).

