# § 2.2-2477 Virginia Career Readiness Certificate Program.

A. There is created the Virginia Career Readiness Certificate Program (the Program) to certify the workplace and college readiness skills of Virginians, in order to better prepare them for continued education and workforce training, successful employment, and career advancement.

B. The Program may be offered through public high schools, community colleges, one-stop centers, technical centers, vocation rehabilitation centers, the Department of Corrections, the Department of Juvenile Justice, institutions of higher education, and any other appropriate institutions as determined by the Virginia Board of Workforce Development.

C. The Program shall include, but not be limited to, the following:

1. A multilevel Career Readiness Certificate and related pre-instructional assessment tool to quantify an individual's level of proficiency in the following measurable work-ready skills: (i) reading, (ii) applied math, (iii) locating information, and (iv) any additional skills necessary to meet business and industry skill demand;

2. Targeted instruction and remediation skills training to address those work-ready skills in which the individual is not proficient as measured by the pre-instructional assessment tool designed to meet identified specific skill needs of local employers;

3. A Career Readiness Certificate awarded to individuals upon successful attainment of work-ready skills as documented by the assessment tool; and

4. A statewide online data system to serve as the repository for Career Readiness Certificate attainment data. The system shall (i) serve as the administrative tool to administer and help promote the Program; (ii) incorporate online services that enable employers to search individual Career Readiness Certificate data to determine skill levels and locate certified individuals in the state or a region; and (iii) incorporate online services that offer individuals tools for career exploration, continued education opportunities, job-readiness practice, and job search capabilities. The Virginia Board of Workforce Development shall seek to ensure the confidentiality of individual Career Readiness Certificate recipients. This shall include provisions for individuals, except for employer-sponsored individuals, to opt in and opt out of the statewide online data system at any test occurrence. Additionally, the provisions of §§ [2.2-3800](/vacode/2.2-3800/) through [2.2-3803](/vacode/2.2-3803/) shall be considered in individual confidentiality protections adopted by the Virginia Board of Workforce Development.

D. The Board, in consultation with the Secretary of Education, shall develop policies and guidelines necessary to implement and administer the Program.

E. The Board shall report Program outcomes to the Governor and the Senate Commerce and Labor Committee, Senate Education and Health Committee, House Committee on Labor and Commerce, and House Education Committee of the General Assembly by December 1 of each year. The report shall make recommendations for improving the program, including funding recommendations.

2014, c. [815](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0815).

