# § 2.2-2614 Citizens' Advisory Council on Furnishing and Interpreting the Executive Mansion; purpose as a nonprofit charitable organization; membership; terms; officers and executive groups; compensation.

A. The Citizens' Advisory Council on Furnishing and Interpreting the Executive Mansion (the Council) is established as an advisory council in the executive branch of state government to operate as a nonprofit charitable organization. No part of the Council's net earnings shall inure to the benefit of any private individual nor shall it carry on propaganda or otherwise attempt to influence legislation or participate in any political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public office.

B. The Council shall not exceed 30 members, who shall be appointed by the Governor. No employee of the Commonwealth or member of the General Assembly shall be eligible for appointment as a member of the Council. All members shall be deemed members-at-large charged with the responsibility of serving the best interests of the whole Commonwealth and no member shall act as representative of any particular region or of any particular agency or activity.

C. All appointments shall be for five-year terms. No member of the Council who serves a full five-year term shall be eligible for reappointment, provided that one year after the termination of his appointment, a member shall be eligible for reappointment. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointments.

D. The spouse of the Governor, if any, shall be the honorary chairperson of the Council. The Governor shall designate one member of the Council to serve as chairman of an executive group, such executive group to be determined by the Council, and to be composed of members of the Council. Other advisory and cooperative groups may be appointed by the chairman. After the chairman has served three years, the Council thereafter shall elect its chairman.

E. Members of the Council shall not receive any compensation or reimbursement of expenses for their services.

1973, c. 431, §§ 9-84.5, 9-84.6; 1985, c. 448; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2013, c. [439](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0439).

