# ยง 2.2-2100 Classification of executive branch boards, commissions and councils.

A. Effective July 1, 1986, every collegial body established by law or executive order within the executive branch of state government shall be classified according to its level of authority as follows:

"Advisory" -- A board, commission or council shall be classified as advisory when its purpose is to provide advice and comment to an executive branch agency or office. An advisory board, commission or council serves as a formal liaison between the agency or office and the public to ensure that the agency or office understands public concerns and that the activities of the agency or office are communicated to the public. An advisory board, commission or council does not serve a regulatory or rule-making purpose. It may participate in the development of public policy by providing comment and advice.

"Policy" -- A board, commission or council shall be classified as policy if it is specifically charged by statute to promulgate public policies or regulations. It may also be charged with adjudicating violations of those policies or regulations. Specific functions of the board, commission or council may include, but are not limited to, rate setting, distributing federal funds, and adjudicating regulatory or statutory violations, but each power shall be enumerated by law. Policy boards, commissions or councils are not responsible for supervising agencies or employing personnel. They may review and comment on agency budget requests.

"Supervisory" -- A board, commission, or council shall be classified as supervisory if it is responsible for agency operations including approval of requests for appropriations. A supervisory board, commission, or council appoints the agency director and ensures that the agency director complies with all board and statutory directives. The agency director is subordinate to the board. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board of Education shall be considered a supervisory board.

B. Each executive branch board, commission or council shall be assigned only one of the above classifications. The classification for boards and councils that are created by law shall be designated by the enabling legislation. The classification for commissions that are created by executive order shall be designated by the executive order.

1985, c. 419, ยง 9-6.25; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

