# § 2.2-1136 Review of easements; maintenance of records; notification when lease or other agreement for branch office to terminate; report.

A. The Department shall review all deeds, leases, and contractual agreements with utilities to serve state institutions or agencies that require the approval of the Governor, as well as all easements and rights-of-way granted by institutions and agencies to public and private utilities.

B. The Department shall be responsible for the maintenance of records relating to property as defined in § [2.2-1147](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1147/) and any other real property used or occupied by lease, license, permit, or other agreement by any state department, agency, or institution, except records relating to (i) real estate or rights-of-way acquired by the Department of Transportation for the construction of highways; (ii) ungranted shores of the sea, marsh, and meadowlands as defined in § [28.2-1500](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-1500/); or (iii) real estate or rights-of-way acquired by the Department of Rail and Public Transportation for the construction of railway lines or rail or public transportation facilities or the retention of rail corridors for public purposes. The Department may have such boundary, topographic, and other maps prepared as may be necessary.

C. The Department shall develop the criteria for and conduct an annual inventory of all real property referred to in subsection B for which it is responsible. Such inventory with respect to owned property shall be reviewed by the Department in developing recommendations pursuant to subsection A of § [2.2-1153](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1153/). All state departments, agencies, and institutions shall cooperate with the Department and provide such data and documents as may be required to develop and maintain the records and inventory required by this section.

D. The Department shall make the inventory referred to in subsection C available on the Department's website. The description of the inventory shall include parcel identification consistent with national spatial data standards in addition to a street address as available and reported to the Department by departments, agencies, and institutions and shall include the date upon which the use or occupancy, if used or occupied by lease, license, permit, or other agreement, of the inventoried property is to terminate pursuant to the lease, license, permit, or other agreement therefor.

E. The Department shall provide a quarterly report, in electronic form, to the General Assembly that includes renewal and termination dates for inventoried property pursuant to the lease, license, permit, or other agreement administered by the Department. Such information shall include property that serves as a branch office of a state agency. The report shall include all such renewals and terminations scheduled to occur within 90 days of the report date. The report shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website. As used in this subsection, "branch office" means an office of a state agency other than its main office that assists the state agency in carrying out its statutory mission, including providing access to government services and programs.

1966, c. 55, §§ 2-65.1, 2.1-82.1; 1970, c. 202; 1974, c. 27; 1976, c. 125; 1977, c. 672, § 2.1-484; 1978, c. 770; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2009, c. [612](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0612); 2011, cc. [659](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0659), [675](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0675); 2014, c. [211](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0211); 2017, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0706).

