# § 2.2-125 Governor authorized to accept certain property from Confederate Memorial Literary Society.

The Governor may accept, in the name of the Commonwealth, the property known as The White House of the Confederacy, any building that may be erected by the Confederate Memorial Literary Society, and the property known as The Lee House, located at 707 East Franklin Street in the City of Richmond, together with any moneys or other assets, including items being housed and displayed in such buildings or any of them, belonging to the Confederate Memorial Literary Society. The buildings and their contents thereof shall thereafter be preserved and maintained for historic purposes by the Commonwealth. Upon the transfer of title to the property to the Commonwealth, the Governor shall appoint a board of trustees consisting of thirteen persons appointed from the Commonwealth at large, which shall thereafter be charged with the preservation and maintenance of the properties and the administration of any funds that may be received or donated by the Confederate Memorial Literary Society or from any other source. The members of the board first appointed shall be appointed as follows: four for terms of four years, four for terms of three years, four for terms of two years, and one for a term of one year. Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of four years except appointments to fill vacancies, which shall be for the unexpired terms.

The board shall appoint a treasurer, who shall have custody of its funds and shall be bonded in such amount as the board may determine. Expenditures from such funds shall be made by the treasurer as the board directs, for any purpose, in the discretion of the board, consonant with the purpose for which the same are donated.

The board may fix, charge and collect admission fees to the buildings under its custody and control, and expend moneys so received in the upkeep, maintenance and operation of such buildings as historic shrines.

1966, c. 412, §§ 9-84.1, 9-84.2, 9-84.3, 9-84.4; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

