# § 2.2-2696 Substance Abuse Services Council.

A. The Substance Abuse Services Council (the Council) is established as an advisory council, within the meaning of § [2.2-2100](/vacode/2.2-2100/), in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Council is to advise and make recommendations to the Governor, the General Assembly, and the State Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services on broad policies and goals and on the coordination of the Commonwealth's public and private efforts to control substance abuse, as defined in § [37.2-100](/vacode/37.2-100/).

B. The Council shall consist of 29 members. Four members of the House of Delegates shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates, in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates, and two members of the Senate shall be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules. The Governor shall appoint one member representing the Virginia Sheriffs' Association, one member representing the Virginia Drug Courts Association, one member representing the Substance Abuse Certification Alliance of Virginia, two members representing the Virginia Association of Community Services Boards, and two members representing statewide consumer and advocacy organizations. The Council shall also include the Commissioner of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services; the Commissioner of Health; the Commissioner of the Department of Motor Vehicles; the Superintendent of Public Instruction; the Directors of the Departments of Juvenile Justice, Corrections, Criminal Justice Services, Medical Assistance Services, and Social Services; the Chief Executive Officer of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority; the Executive Director of the Virginia Foundation for Healthy Youth or his designee; the Executive Director of the Commission on the Virginia Alcohol Safety Action Program or his designee; and the chairs or their designees of the Virginia Association of Drug and Alcohol Programs, the Virginia Association of Addiction Professionals, and the Substance Abuse Council and the Prevention Task Force of the Virginia Association of Community Services Boards.

C. Appointments of legislative members and heads of agencies or representatives of organizations shall be for terms consistent with their terms of office. Beginning July 1, 2011, the Governor's appointments of the seven nonlegislative citizen members shall be staggered as follows: two members for a term of one year, three members for a term of two years, and two members for a term of three years. Thereafter, appointments of nonlegislative members shall be for terms of three years, except an appointment to fill a vacancy, which shall be for the unexpired term. The Governor shall appoint a chairman from among the members for a two-year term. No member shall be eligible to serve more than two consecutive terms as chairman.

No person shall be eligible to serve more than two successive terms, provided that a person appointed to fill a vacancy may serve two full successive terms.

D. The Council shall meet at least four times annually and more often if deemed necessary or advisable by the chairman.

E. Members of the Council shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). Funding for the cost of expenses shall be provided by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services.

F. The duties of the Council shall be:

1. To recommend policies and goals to the Governor, the General Assembly, and the State Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services;

2. To coordinate agency programs and activities, to prevent duplication of functions, and to combine all agency plans into a comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services;

3. To review and comment on annual state agency budget requests regarding substance abuse and on all applications for state or federal funds or services to be used in substance abuse programs;

4. To define responsibilities among state agencies for various programs for persons with substance abuse and to encourage cooperation among agencies; and

5. To make investigations, issue annual reports to the Governor and the General Assembly, and make recommendations relevant to substance abuse upon the request of the Governor.

G. Staff assistance shall be provided to the Council by the Office of Substance Abuse Services of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services.

1976, c. 767, § 37.1-207; 1977, c. 18; 1978, c. 171; 1979, c. 678; 1980, c. 582; 1984, c. 589; 1990, cc. 1, 288, 317; 1998, c. [724](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0724); 1999, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0614); 2005, cc. [713](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0713), [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716); 2009, cc. [424](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0424), [554](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0554), [813](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813), [840](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840); 2011, cc. [691](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691), [714](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714); 2012, cc. [803](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803), [835](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835); 2015, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038), [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730).

