# § 2.2-2813 Definitions; compensation and expense payments from state funds for service on collegial bodies.

A. As used in this chapter:

"Compensation" means any amount paid in addition to reimbursement for expenses.

"Expenses" means all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of duties.

"Salary" means a fixed compensation for services, paid to part-time and full-time employees on a regular basis.

B. Subject to the provisions of subsections C and D, members of boards, commissions, committees, councils and other collegial bodies, who are appointed at the state level, shall be compensated at the rate of $50 per day, unless a different rate of compensation is specified by statute for such members, plus expenses for each day or portion thereof in which the member is engaged in the business of that body. The funding for the compensation and reimbursement of expenses of members shall be provided by the collegial body or, if funds are not appropriated to the collegial body for such purpose, by the entity that supports the work of the collegial body. The collegial body or supporting agency shall reimburse the Clerk of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Delegates for expenditures incurred in providing compensation and expenses of their respective members for service on the collegial body.

C. Full-time employees of the Commonwealth or any of its local political subdivisions, including full-time faculty members of public institutions of higher education, shall be limited to reimbursement for such employee's expenses.

D. No member shall receive total compensation for a single day of more than one payment of the highest per diem amount specified in subsection B for attending meetings and for services performed that day for all boards, commissions, or other similar bodies, of which such person is a member, including all committees, subcommittees, or other related entities of such boards, commissions, or other similar bodies. Whenever a member performs services or attends two or more meetings in a single day for two or more boards, commissions, etc., compensation and expenses shall be prorated among the bodies served.

E. A nonlegislative member of a state board, commission, committee, council, or other state collegial body, which body is required by law to meet at least three times per year, shall, for any compensation or expense reimbursement from funds drawn from the state treasury, be required to participate in the Electronic Data Interchange Program administered or authorized by the Department of Accounts as a condition of accepting such appointment.

1980, c. 728, §§ 2.1-20.2, 2.1-20.3; 1981, c. 181; 1998, cc. [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0790), [872](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872); 2001, cc. [227](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0227), [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2003, cc. [814](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0814), [821](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0821); 2011, c. [495](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0495).

