# ยง 2.2-1836 Insurance plan for state-owned buildings and state-owned contents of buildings.

A. Subject to the approval of the Governor, the Division shall establish a risk management plan that may be self-insurance or a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance to provide coverage on (i) state-owned buildings and (ii) state-owned contents of buildings owned by the Commonwealth or of buildings not owned by the Commonwealth that are occupied in whole or in part by an agency of the Commonwealth.

B. Any insurance plan established pursuant to this section may provide, but not be limited to, physical damage coverage against the perils of (i) fire and lightning; (ii) extended coverage for windstorm, hail, smoke, explosion, other than that caused by steam pressure vessels, riot, riot attending a strike, civil commotion, aircraft and vehicles not owned by the Commonwealth; (iii) vandalism and malicious mischief; (iv) optional perils; and (v) all risk insurance.

C. Any insurance plan established pursuant to this section shall provide for the establishment of a trust fund or contribution to the State Insurance Reserve Trust Fund for the payment of claims covered under such a plan, which are not recoverable from purchased insurance. The funds shall be invested as provided in ยง [2.2-1806](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1806/) and interest shall be added to the fund as earned. The trust fund shall also provide for payment of administrative costs, contractual costs and other expenses related to the administration of the plan.

D. The insurance plan for state-owned buildings and state-owned contents of buildings shall be submitted to the Governor for approval prior to implementation.

1980, c. 488, ยง 2.1-526.7; 1982, c. 318; 1988, c. 848; 2000, cc. [618](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0618), [632](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0632), ยง 2.1-191.10; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

