# ยง 2.2-2519 Membership; quorum.

The Commission shall have a total membership of eight members that shall consist of six nonlegislative citizen members and two ex officio members. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed by the Governor as follows: two who shall be former members of either the board of visitors of a public institution of higher education or the State Board for Community Colleges; one who shall be either a former president, provost, or executive vice-president of a public institution of higher education; one who shall be a faculty member of a public institution of higher education; and two who shall be citizens at large. The Secretary of Education or his designee and the Secretary of the Commonwealth or his designee shall serve as ex officio members of the Commission with nonvoting privileges. The nonlegislative citizen member appointed who is a faculty member of a public institution of higher education shall serve without voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Commission shall be citizens of the Commonwealth. Three voting members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.

Nonlegislative citizen members shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor, and ex officio members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.

2005, cc. [933](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0933), [945](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0945); 2014, c. [816](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0816).

