# ยง 2.2-2479 Membership; terms; quorum; meetings.

A. The Board shall consist of no more than 20 nonlegislative citizen members, to be appointed by the Governor from the Commonwealth at large. Nonlegislative citizen members appointed to the Board shall be selected for their knowledge of, background in, or experience with the community and volunteer services sector and in accordance with guidelines provided in the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993. The Governor may appoint additional persons, at his discretion, as nonvoting members.

B. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for terms of three years. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms. No nonlegislative citizen member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive three-year terms; however, after the expiration of the remainder of a term to which a member was appointed to fill a vacancy, two additional terms may be served by such member if appointed thereto.

C. The voting members of the Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman annually from among its membership. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall meet no more than six times per year. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

2015, cc. [26](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0026), [452](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0452); 2017, c. [395](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0395); 2018, c. [455](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0455).

