# ยง 2.2-1131.1 Establishment of performance standards for the use of property.

A. The Department shall establish performance standards for the acquisition, lease and disposition of property and for the management and utilization of such property at the individual agency and statewide levels to maximize the use of property for which it is held. For the purposes of this section, "property" means the same as that term is defined in ยง [2.2-1147](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1147/).

B. The head of each state agency or institution shall ensure that property assets held by the agency on behalf of the Commonwealth are managed in accordance with the standards set by the Department. Public institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth that have delegated authority to manage aspects of their real property usage and have signed a memorandum of understanding with the Secretary of Administration related to such delegated authority shall be deemed in compliance with the standards set by the Department as long as they abide by the terms of the memorandum of understanding. Standards established in accordance with the memorandum of understanding shall be reported to the Department by October 1 of each year.

C. The Department may take appropriate actions, including assuring compliance with the standards set by the Department and entering into leasing arrangements or other contracts, to ensure that asset usage by each state agency is proper and cost effective.

D. No later than November 30 of each year, the Department shall report to the Governor and the General Assembly on the implementation and effectiveness of this program.

2004, cc. [684](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0684), [750](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0750); 2009, c. [612](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0612).

