# ยง 2.2-1123 Acquisition of surplus materials from the United States government.

The Division is designated as the agency of state government responsible for acquiring surplus personal property, including but not limited to materials, supplies, and equipment, by purchase, gift, or otherwise, from the United States government or any of its agencies for distribution to departments, agencies, institutions and political subdivisions of the Commonwealth and to eligible, nonprofit, nongovernmental organizations for use in the organizations' activities within the Commonwealth. The acquisitions shall be made, when in the judgment of the Division, it is advantageous to the Commonwealth to do so. The property may be acquired for storage and subsequent distribution or for immediate distribution. The Division may collect the purchase price of any such property, if applicable, and service charges sufficient to defray the costs of carrying out this program from entities to which it distributes the property. The Division shall publish a plan that meets the requirements of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as it may be amended from time to time, and any similar federal statutes requiring such plan.

The Division may, by general rule or special order, delegate to any using department, agency, institution, political subdivision, or eligible, nonprofit, nongovernmental organization the authority to acquire such property directly from the federal government rather than through the Division, whenever the Division determines that it is advantageous to do so. The Division may prescribe regulations for the acquisition of such property by entities to which it delegates its authority.

1984, c. 746, ยง 2.1-445.1; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

