# § 2.2-1100 Creation of Department; appointment of Director; duties.

A. There is created a Department of General Services (the Department), which shall be headed by a Director appointed by the Governor to serve at his pleasure.

B. The Director of the Department shall, under the direction and control of the Governor, exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed upon him by law and perform such other duties as may be required by the Governor. The Director shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the Department's divisions, programs and personnel. Under his direction the Department shall serve as an agency whose services are primarily for the support of other state agencies in carrying out their programs. The head of each division shall, under the direction and control of the Director, exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred by this chapter as they pertain to his division and perform such other duties as required by the Director.

C. Whenever in this title and in the Code of Virginia, reference is made to a division, department or agency transferred to this Department, it shall mean the Department of General Services, through the division to which the powers and duties of that division, department or agency are assigned. Notwithstanding anything in this section to the contrary, the Director shall have the authority to create new divisions within the Department and to assign or reassign the duties of the Department's divisions to whatever divisions as may best perform them.

1977, c. 672, §§ 2.1-422, 2.1-423, 2.1-425; 1978, c. 255; 1984, c. 720; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2005, c. [385](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0385).

