# ยง 2.2-2721 Center for Rural Virginia Board of Trustees established; membership; terms; vacancies; chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, and other officers as necessary; quorum; meetings.

A. The Center shall be governed by a board of trustees consisting of 21 members that include six legislative members, 12 nonlegislative citizen members, and three ex officio members to be appointed as follows: four members of the House of Delegates, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; two members of the Senate, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; six nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; four nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and two nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The Lieutenant Governor, or his designee, the Secretary of Commerce and Trade, or his designee, and the Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, or his designee, shall serve ex officio with voting privileges. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

B. Legislative members and ex officio members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Initial appointments of nonlegislative citizen members shall be staggered as follows: four members for a term of three years appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; two members for a term of two years appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and one member for a term of two years appointed by the Governor. Thereafter, nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates or the Senate Committee on Rules shall be appointed for a term of two years, and nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor shall be appointed for a term of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. All members may be reappointed. However, no nonlegislative citizen member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates or the Senate Committee on Rules shall serve more than four consecutive two-year terms, and no nonlegislative citizen member appointed by the Governor shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.

C. The Board of Trustees shall elect a chairman, vice-chairman, secretary, and such other officers as may be necessary from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

2004, cc. [938](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0938), [964](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0964); 2010, cc. [259](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0259), [628](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0628); 2014, cc. [392](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0392), [445](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0445).

