# § 2.2-1153 State agencies and institutions to notify Department of property not used or required; criteria.

A. Whenever any department, agency or institution of state government possesses or has under its control state-owned or leased property that is not being used to full capacity or is not required for the programs of the department, agency or institution, it shall so notify the Department. Such notification shall be in a form and manner prescribed by the Department. Each department, agency and institution shall submit to the Department a land use plan for state-owned property it possesses or has under its control showing present and planned uses of such property. Such plan shall be approved by the cognizant board or governing body of the department, agency or institution holding title to or otherwise controlling the state-owned property or the agency head in the absence of a board or governing body, with a recommendation on whether any property should be declared surplus by the department, agency or institution. Development of such land use plans shall be based on guidelines promulgated by the Department. The guidelines shall provide that each land use plan shall be updated and copies provided to the Department by September 1 of each year. The Department may exempt properties that are held and used for conservation purposes from the requirements of this section. The Department shall review the land use plans, the records and inventory required pursuant to subsections B and C of § [2.2-1136](/vacode/2.2-1136/) and such other information as may be necessary and determine whether the property or any portion thereof should be declared surplus to the needs of the Commonwealth. By October 1 of each year, the Department shall provide a report to the Chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations setting forth the Department's findings, the sale or marketing of properties identified pursuant to this section, and recommending any actions that may be required by the Governor and the General Assembly to identify and dispose of property not being efficiently and effectively utilized. The Department shall provide a listing of surplus properties on the Department's website. The description of surplus property shall include parcel identification consistent with national spatial data standards in addition to a street address.

Until permanent disposition of the property determined to be surplus is effected, the property shall continue to be maintained by the department, agency or institution possessing or controlling it, unless upon the recommendation of the Department, the Governor authorizes the transfer of the property to the possession or control of the Department. In this event, the department, agency or institution formerly possessing or controlling the property shall have no further interest in it.

B. The Department shall establish criteria for ascertaining whether property under the control of a department, agency or institution should be classified as "surplus" to its current or proposed needs. Such criteria shall provide that the cognizant board or governing body, if any, of the department, agency or institution holding the title to or otherwise controlling the state-owned property, or the agency head in the absence of a board or governing body, shall approve the designation of the property as surplus.

C. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A:

1. The property known as College Woods, which includes Lake Matoaka and is possessed and controlled by a college founded in 1693, regardless of whether such property has been declared surplus pursuant to this section, shall not be transferred or disposed of without the approval of the board of visitors of such college by a two-thirds vote of all board members at a regularly scheduled board meeting. The General Assembly shall also approve the disposal or transfer.

2. Surplus real property valued at less than $5 million that is possessed and controlled by a public institution of higher education may be sold by such institution, provided that (i) at least 45 days prior to executing a contract for the sale of such property, the institution gives written notification to the Governor and the Chairmen of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations; and (ii) the Governor may postpone the sale at any time up to 10 days prior to the proposed date of sale. Such sale may be effected by public auction, sealed bids, or by marketing through one or more Virginia licensed real estate brokers after satisfying the public notice provisions of subsection D of § [2.2-1156](/vacode/2.2-1156/). The terms of all negotiations resulting in such sale shall be public information. The public institution of higher education may retain the proceeds from the sale of such property if the property was acquired by nongeneral funds. If the institution originally acquired the property through a mix of general and nongeneral funds, 50 percent of the proceeds shall be distributed to the institution and 50 percent shall be distributed to the State Park Conservation Resources Fund established under subsection A of § [10.1-202](/vacode/10.1-202/). The authority of a public institution of higher education to sell surplus real property described under this subdivision or to retain any proceeds from the sale of such property shall be subject to the institution meeting the conditions prescribed in subsection A of § [23.1-1002](/vacode/23.1-1002/) and § [23.1-1019](/vacode/23.1-1019/) (regardless of whether or not the institution has been granted any authority under Article 4 (§ [23.1-1004](/vacode/23.1-1004/) et seq.) of Chapter 10 of Title 23.1).

1968, c. 717, § 2.1-106.2; 1972, c. 763; 1977, c. 672, § 2.1-505; 1978, c. 545; 1984, c. 641; 1995, c. [774](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0774); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2004, c. [997](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0997); 2005, cc. [933](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0933), [945](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0945); 2009, c. [612](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0612); 2011, cc. [659](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0659), [675](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0675); 2017, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0706); 2019, cc. [659](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0659), [660](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0660).

