# ยง 2.2-308 Office created; appointment of State Inspector General.

A. There is hereby created the Office of the State Inspector General, which shall be headed by a State Inspector General appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The State Inspector General shall be appointed for a four-year term. The State Inspector General shall have at least five years of demonstrated experience or expertise in accounting, public administration, or audit investigations as a certified public accountant or a certified internal auditor. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment by the Governor for the unexpired term and shall be effective until 30 days after the next session of the ensuing General Assembly and, if confirmed, thereafter for the remainder of such term. The Governor may remove the State Inspector General from office for malfeasance, misfeasance, incompetence, misconduct, neglect of duty, absenteeism, conflict of interests, or failure to carry out the policies of the Commonwealth as established in the Constitution or by the General Assembly. The Governor shall set forth in a written public statement his reasons for removing the State Inspector General at the time the removal occurs.

B. The State Inspector General shall exercise the powers and perform the duties conferred or imposed upon him by law. The State Inspector General shall be responsible for the overall supervision of the Office.

C. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or prevent the General Assembly from reviewing the operations of any state agency or directing such review or audit by the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission or the Auditor of Public Accounts or to otherwise limit the statutory responsibilities of either the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission or the Auditor of Public Accounts.

2011, cc. [798](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0798), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0871).

