# ยง 2.2-307 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Employee" means any person who is regularly employed full time on either a salaried or wage basis, whose tenure is not restricted as to temporary or provisional appointment, in the service of, and whose compensation is payable by, no more often than biweekly, in whole or in part, a state agency.

"Nonstate agency" means any public or private foundation, authority, institute, museum, corporation, or similar organization that is (i) not a unit of state government or a political subdivision of the Commonwealth as established by general law or special act and (ii) wholly or principally supported by state funds. "Nonstate agency" shall not include any such entity that receives state funds (a) as a subgrantee of a state agency, (b) through a state grant-in-aid program authorized by law, (c) as a result of an award of a competitive grant or a public contract for the procurement of goods, services, or construction, or (d) pursuant to a lease of real property as described in subdivision 5 of ยง [2.2-1149](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1149/).

"Office" means the Office of the State Inspector General.

"Officer" means any person who is elected or appointed to a public office in a state agency.

"State agency" means any agency, institution, board, bureau, commission, council, or instrumentality of state government in the executive branch listed in the appropriation act. "State agency" also includes any local department of social services.

2011, cc. [798](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0798), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0871); 2017, c. [590](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0590).

