# ยง 2.2-2358 Division of Investment.

A. Within the Authority shall be created a Division of Investment (the Division) to provide the Commonwealth with a competitive advantage through an array of funding mechanisms as provided in ยง [2.2-2355](/vacode/2.2-2355/) related to direct and indirect venture capital investments. The Division may (i) make direct investments in business entities, (ii) make indirect investments in business entities through intermediary entities, whether formed by the Authority, or by another public or private entity or provide other financial support to encourage the formation of such intermediary entities or sidecar funds, (iii) benchmark state tax incentive programs relating to the formation and growth of technology-based businesses, and (iv) perform any other duties or responsibilities assigned by the Board.

B. The Division shall partner with and support women-owned and minority-owned entrepreneurial entities through initiatives such as investor networks, accelerators, and incubators that promote and develop women and minority founders. Further, the Division shall consider status as a woman-owned or minority-owned business when making direct or indirect investments.

C. The Division shall work to support investments in the diverse economies and regions of the Commonwealth and shall engage members of rural and geographically underrepresented communities on advisory committees and in positions of decision making.

D. The Division shall be advised by an Advisory Committee on Investment (the Advisory Committee), to be appointed by the Board.

E. The Board, in consultation with the Division and the Advisory Committee, shall make biennial recommendations to the Governor regarding investment strategies.

2020, cc. [1164](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1164), [1169](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1169).

