# ยง 2.2-2266 Rents, fees and charges for financing or refinancing, services or use of facilities; use and disposition of revenues.

The Authority may fix, revise, charge, and collect rates, fees, and other charges for the financing or refinancing of, the use of or for the services and facilities furnished by each project and the different parts thereof, and to contract with any agency, commission, political subdivision or other entity desiring the use of any part thereof, and to fix the terms, conditions, rents, and rates of charges for such use or financing or refinancing. Such rates, fees, and other charges shall be fixed and adjusted so that revenues of the Authority, together with any other available funds, will be sufficient at all times to pay (i) the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating such project and (ii) the principal of and the interest on the related bonds as they become due and payable, and to create reserves for such purposes. Such rates, fees, and other charges shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any other commission, board, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth. The revenues derived from the project in connection with which the bonds have been issued, except such part thereof as may be necessary to pay the cost of maintenance, repair and operation and to provide such reserves therefor as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust agreement securing the bonds, shall be set aside at such regular intervals as may be provided in the resolution or trust agreement in a sinking fund which is pledged to, and charged with, the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds as they become due, and the redemption price or the purchase price of bonds retired by call or purchase as therein provided. Such pledge shall be valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made, the revenues or other moneys so pledged and thereafter received by the Authority shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract or otherwise against the Authority, irrespective of whether such parties have notice thereof. Neither the resolution nor any trust agreement by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded except in the records of the Authority. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or of the trust agreement. Except as may otherwise be provided in the resolution or trust agreement, such sinking fund shall be a fund for all such bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.

1981, c. 569, ยง 2.1-234.16; 1998, cc. [498](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0498), [504](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0504); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

