# ยง 2.2-1835 State Insurance Reserve Trust Fund.

A. The State Insurance Reserve Trust Fund (the "Fund") is established and shall consist of the payments required by subsection B. The Fund shall be under the management and control of the Division, and any claims for losses payable out of the Fund shall be at the direction of the Division. The Fund shall be invested as provided in ยง [2.2-1806](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1806/) and interest shall be added to the fund as earned.

B. Each agency, department, division, or institution of state government having control over any state structure and contents thereof, or that participates in any program of insurance operated by the Division, shall pay each year into the Fund or any trust fund established pursuant to the provisions of this article amounts necessary to maintain the trusts at levels of funding deemed adequate by the Division. The Division shall set the premium and administrative costs to be paid to it for providing an insurance plan established pursuant to this section. The premiums and administrative costs set by the Division shall be payable in the amounts, at the time and in the manner that the Division in its sole discretion requires. Premiums and administrative costs need not be uniform among participants, but shall be set to best ensure the financial stability of the plan. Whenever any building or structure is under the control of two or more agencies, departments, divisions or institutions of the Commonwealth, the payment required shall be prorated upon the basis of percentage of the area controlled.

C. In the event of loss or damage exceeding $1000 to property on which there is no insurance recovery or limited insurance recovery as a consequence of any action by the Division resulting in noncoverage, reduced insurance, elimination of insured perils or otherwise, the Division shall determine the amount, if any, payable out of the Fund, and such amount, when approved by the Governor, shall be final. The amount payable shall be used for the purpose of restoring the damaged structure or rebuilding it, as the circumstances may require, but in no event shall the amount payable on account of such loss exceed the actual cash value or the replacement cost value of the property in accordance with the basis of insurance, nor shall the amount payable when added to the insurance recovered exceed the actual cash value or the replacement cost value of the property, as recorded in the property and insurance records of the Division.

D. In addition to the amounts payable under subsection C, the costs of operating the Division that are properly allocated to its functions concerning the Fund and other administrative and contractual costs of the Division not otherwise provided for shall be paid out of the Fund, for which purposes such funds are appropriated.

1980, c. 488, ยง 2.1-526.5; 1982, c. 318; 1988, c. 848; 1996, cc. [475](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0475), [510](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0510); 2000, cc. [618](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0618), [632](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0632), ยง 2.1-191.8; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

