# § 2.2-4101 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Agency" means any authority, instrumentality, officer, board, or other unit of the government of the Commonwealth with express or implied authority to issue regulations other than the General Assembly, courts, municipal corporations, counties, other local or regional governmental authorities including sanitary or other districts and joint state-federal, interstate or intermunicipal authorities, the Virginia Resources Authority, the Virginia Code Commission with respect to minor changes made under the provisions of § [30-150](/vacode/30-150/), and educational institutions operated by the Commonwealth with respect to regulations that pertain to (i) their academic affairs; (ii) the selection, tenure, promotion and disciplining of faculty and employees; (iii) the selection of students; and (iv) rules of conduct and disciplining of students.

"Virginia Administrative Code" means the codified publication of regulations under the provisions of Chapter 15 (§ [30-145](/vacode/30-145/) et seq.) of Title 30.

"Commission" means the Virginia Code Commission.

"Guidance document" means any document developed by a state agency or staff that provides information or guidance of general applicability to the staff or public to interpret or implement statutes or the agency's rules or regulations, excluding agency minutes or documents that pertain only to the internal management of agencies. Nothing in this definition shall be construed or interpreted to expand the identification or release of any document otherwise protected by law.

"Registrar" means the Registrar of Regulations employed as provided in § [2.2-4102](/vacode/2.2-4102/).

"Rule" or "regulation" means any statement of general application, having the force of law, affecting the rights or conduct of any person, promulgated by an agency in accordance with the authority conferred on it by applicable basic laws.

"Virginia Register of Regulations" means the publication issued under the provisions of Article 6 (§ [2.2-4031](/vacode/2.2-4031/) et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

1973, c. 535, § 9-6.16; 1975, c. 502; 1982, c. 489; 1984, c. 5; 1985, cc. 67, 602; 1993, c. 669; 1997, cc. [11](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0011), [87](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0087); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2019, c. [362](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0362).

