# § 2.2-2316 Executive Director; Board of Directors; members and officers.

A. Notwithstanding the provisions of § [2.2-2318](/vacode/2.2-2318/), all powers, rights and duties conferred by this article or other provisions of law upon the Authority shall be exercised by an Executive Director with the advice and comment of a Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be an advisory board within the meaning of § [2.2-2100](/vacode/2.2-2100/).

B. The Board of Directors shall consist of the Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, the Secretary of Commerce and Trade, the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary of Natural and Historic Resources, the Lieutenant Governor, and 12 members appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The members of the Board appointed by the Governor shall serve terms of six years. Any appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board shall be made for the unexpired term of the member whose death, resignation or removal created the vacancy. All members of the Board shall be residents of the Commonwealth. Members may be appointed to successive terms on the Board of Directors. The Governor shall make appointments in such a manner as to ensure the widest possible geographical representation of all parts of the Commonwealth.

Each member of the Board shall be reimbursed for his reasonable expenses incurred in attendance at meetings or when otherwise engaged in the business of the Authority and shall be compensated at the rate provided in § [2.2-2104](/vacode/2.2-2104/) for each day or portion thereof in which the member is engaged in the business of the Authority.

C. The Governor shall designate one member of the Board as chairman. The Board may elect one member as vice-chairman, who shall exercise the powers of chairman in the absence of the chairman or as directed by the chairman. The Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry, the Secretary of Commerce and Trade, the Secretary of Finance, the Secretary of Natural and Historic Resources, and the Lieutenant Governor shall not be eligible to serve as chairman or vice-chairman.

D. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or of any seven members. Nine members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the Authority. An act of the majority of the members of the Board present at any regular or special meeting at which a quorum is present shall be an act of the Board of Directors.

E. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no officer or employee of the Commonwealth shall be deemed to have forfeited or shall have forfeited his office or employment by reason of acceptance of membership on the Board or by providing service to the Authority.

1999, cc. [852](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0852), [881](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0881), § 2.1-548.57; 2000, c. [899](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0899); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2007, c. [779](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0779); 2010, c. [101](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0101); 2015, c. [280](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0280); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [401](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0401).

