# ยง 2.2-1209 Agency director human resource training and agency succession planning.

A. The Department shall develop and administer training programs to familiarize the director of each agency in the executive branch of state government with state human resources policies, including general policies, compensation management, benefits administration, employee training, succession planning, and resources available at the Department. The Department shall offer such training programs at least twice per year.

B. The director of each agency in the executive branch of state government and the agency's chief human resource officer shall attend a training program offered pursuant to subsection A within six months after the appointment of the director. The agency's chief human resource officer shall provide subsequent training to the director on any distinct companion human resource policies of the agency that are germane to agency programs and operations. Thereafter, the director shall attend a training program offered pursuant to subsection A at least once every four years. The president of a public institution of higher education may send a designee.

C. The director of each agency in the executive branch of state government, other than an institution of higher education, shall include in the agency's annual strategic plan its key workforce planning issues. In addition, the director shall submit a succession plan for key personnel, executive positions, and employees nearing retirement to the Cabinet Secretary associated with the director's agency and the Department. The Department shall establish guidelines for the content of such workforce and succession plans. Each public institution of higher education shall prepare a succession plan for presentation to the board of visitors with a copy to the Department.

2017, c. [527](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0527).

