# ยง 2.2-5212 Eligibility for state pool of funds.

A. In order to be eligible for funding for services through the state pool of funds, a youth, or family with a child, shall meet one or more of the criteria specified in subdivisions 1 through 4 and shall be determined through the use of a uniform assessment instrument and process and by policies of the community policy and management team to have access to these funds.

1. The child or youth has emotional or behavior problems that:

a. Have persisted over a significant period of time or, though only in evidence for a short period of time, are of such a critical nature that intervention is warranted;

b. Are significantly disabling and are present in several community settings, such as at home, in school, or with peers; and

c. Require services or resources that are unavailable or inaccessible, or that are beyond the normal agency services or routine collaborative processes across agencies, or require coordinated interventions by at least two agencies.

2. The child or youth has emotional or behavior problems, or both, and currently is in, or is at imminent risk of entering, purchased residential care. In addition, the child or youth requires services or resources that are beyond normal agency services or routine collaborative processes across agencies, and requires coordinated services by at least two agencies.

3. The child or youth requires placement for purposes of special education in approved private school educational programs or for transitional services as set forth in subdivision B 6 of ยง [2.2-5211](/vacode/2.2-5211/).

4. The child or youth requires foster care services as defined in ยง [63.2-905](/vacode/63.2-905/).

B. For purposes of determining eligibility for the state pool of funds, "child" or "youth" means (i) a person younger than 18 years of age or (ii) any individual through 21 years of age who is otherwise eligible for mandated services of the participating state agencies including special education and foster care services.

1992, cc. 837, 880, ยง 2.1-758; 1994, c. [865](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0865); 1999, c. [669](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0669); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2013, c. [5](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0005); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [70](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0070), [71](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0071).

