# ยง 2.2-2264 Revenue bonds generally.

The Authority may, with the consent of the Governor, provide for the issuance of revenue bonds of the Authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of any one or more projects or portions thereof. The principal of and the interest on such bonds shall be payable solely from the funds provided in this article for such payment. Any bonds of the Authority issued pursuant to this article shall not constitute a debt of the Commonwealth, or any political subdivision thereof other than the Authority, and shall so state on their face. Neither the members of the Authority nor any person executing the bonds shall be liable personally by reason of the issuance thereof. The bonds of each issue shall be dated, shall bear interest, shall mature at such time not exceeding forty years from their date as determined by the Authority, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Authority, at such price and under such terms and conditions as determined by the Authority, prior to the issuance of the bonds. The Authority shall determine the form and the manner of execution of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denominations of the bonds and the places of payment of principal and interest, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the Commonwealth. In case any officer whose signature or a facsimile of whose signature appears on any bonds or coupons shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of the bonds, such signature or such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The bonds may be issued in coupon or in registered form or both, as the Authority may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bonds as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest, for the reconversion into coupon bonds of any bonds registered as to both principal and interest, and for the interchange of registered and coupon bonds. The Authority may sell such bonds in a manner, either at public or private sale, and for such price as it determines will best effect the purposes of this article.

The proceeds of the bonds of each issue shall be used solely for the payment of the cost of the projects for which such bonds shall have been issued, and shall be disbursed in the manner and under the restrictions, if any, the Authority may provide in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust agreement securing the bonds. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue, by error of estimates or otherwise, is less than the cost, additional bonds may be issued to provide the amount of such deficit, and, unless otherwise provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of the bonds or in the trust agreement securing the bonds, shall be deemed to be entitled to payment from the same fund without preference or priority of the bonds first issued. If the proceeds of the bonds of any issue shall exceed such cost, the surplus shall be deposited to the credit of the sinking fund for such bonds, or may be applied to the payment of the cost of any additional projects.

Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions issue interim receipts or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds shall have been executed and are available for delivery. The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bonds that shall become mutilated or shall be destroyed or lost. Bonds may be issued under the provisions of this article without obtaining the consent of any department, division, commission, board, bureau or agency of the Commonwealth, and without any other proceedings or the happening of any other conditions or things than those proceedings, conditions or things that are specifically required by this article.

1981, c. 569, ยง 2.1-234.14; 1998, cc. [498](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0498), [504](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0504); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844).

