# § 20-172 Proceedings pending before tribunal; status report.

A. Persons in a proceeding pending before a tribunal may sign a collaborative law participation agreement to seek to resolve a collaborative matter related to the proceeding. The parties shall file promptly with the tribunal a notice of the collaborative law participation agreement after it is signed. Subject to subsection D and §§ [20-173](/vacode/20-173/) and [20-174](/vacode/20-174/), the filing operates as an application for a stay of the proceeding.

B. In the event that a stay is not granted by the tribunal, the proceeding shall be nonsuited by the parties before the collaborative law process may continue.

C. In the event that a stay of the proceeding is granted by the tribunal, the parties shall promptly file with the tribunal a notice in a record when their collaborative law process concludes. A stay of the proceeding under subsection A is lifted when the notice is filed. The notice shall not specify any reason for termination of the process.

D. A tribunal in which a proceeding is stayed under subsection A may require the parties and collaborative lawyers to provide a status report on the collaborative law process and the proceeding. A status report may include only information on whether the process is ongoing or concluded. It shall not include a report, assessment, evaluation, recommendation, finding, or other communication regarding a collaborative law process or collaborative law matter.

E. A tribunal shall not consider a communication made in violation of subsection D.

F. A tribunal shall provide parties notice and an opportunity to be heard before dismissing a proceeding in which a notice of collaborative process is filed based on delay or failure to prosecute.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [346](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0346).

