# ยง 20-49.1 How parent and child relationship established.

A. The parent and child relationship between a child and a woman may be established prima facie by proof of her having given birth to the child, or as otherwise provided in this chapter.

B. The parent and child relationship between a child and a man may be established by:

1. Scientifically reliable genetic tests, including blood tests, which affirm at least a ninety-eight percent probability of paternity. Such genetic test results shall have the same legal effect as a judgment entered pursuant to ยง [20-49.8](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-49.8/).

2. A voluntary written statement of the father and mother made under oath acknowledging paternity and confirming that prior to signing the acknowledgment, the parties were provided with a written and oral description of the rights and responsibilities of acknowledging paternity and the consequences arising from a signed acknowledgment, including the right to rescind. The acknowledgement may be rescinded by either party within sixty days from the date on which it was signed unless an administrative or judicial order relating to the child in an action to which the party seeking rescission was a party is entered prior to the rescission. A written statement shall have the same legal effect as a judgment entered pursuant to ยง [20-49.8](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-49.8/) and shall be binding and conclusive unless, in a subsequent judicial proceeding, the person challenging the statement establishes that the statement resulted from fraud, duress or a material mistake of fact. In any subsequent proceeding in which a statement acknowledging paternity is subject to challenge, the legal responsibilities of any person signing it shall not be suspended during the pendency of the proceeding, except for good cause shown. Written acknowledgments of paternity made under oath by the father and mother prior to July 1, 1990, shall have the same legal effect as a judgment entered pursuant to ยง [20-49.8](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-49.8/).

3. In the absence of such acknowledgment or if the probability of paternity is less than ninety-eight percent, such relationship may be established as otherwise provided in this chapter.

C. The parent and child relationship between a child and an adoptive parent may be established by proof of lawful adoption.

1988, cc. 866, 878; 1990, c. 836; 1992, c. 516; 1997, cc. [792](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0792), [896](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0896); 1998, c. [884](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0884).

