# ยง 20-88.83 Definitions.

As used in this article:

"Application" means a request under the Hague Convention on the International Recovery of Child Support and Other Forms of Family Maintenance by an obligee or obligor, or on behalf of a child, made through a central authority for assistance from another central authority.

"Central authority" means the entity designated by the United States or a foreign country described in ยง [20-88.32](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-88.32/) to perform the functions specified in the Convention.

"Convention support order" means a support order of a tribunal of a foreign country described in ยง [20-88.32](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-88.32/).

"Direct request" means a petition or similar pleading filed by an individual in a tribunal of the Commonwealth in a proceeding involving an obligee, obligor, or child residing outside the United States.

"Foreign central authority" means the entity designated by a foreign country described in ยง [20-88.32](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-88.32/) to perform the functions specified in the Convention.

"Foreign support agreement" means an agreement for support in a record that (i) is enforceable as a support order in the country of origin; (ii) has been formally drawn up or registered as an authentic instrument by a foreign tribunal or authenticated by or concluded, registered, or filed with a foreign tribunal; and (iii) may be reviewed and modified by a foreign tribunal. "Foreign support agreement" includes a maintenance arrangement or authentic instrument under the Convention.

"United States central authority" means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.

2015, c. [727](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0727).

