# ยง 22.1-289.011 Licenses required; issuance, expiration, and renewal; maximum number of participants or children; posting of licenses.

A. As used in this section, "person" means any individual; corporation; partnership; association; limited liability company; local government; state agency, including any department, institution, authority, instrumentality, board, or other administrative agency of the Commonwealth; or other legal or commercial entity that operates or maintains a child day program or family day system.

B. Every person who constitutes, or who operates or maintains, a child day program or family day system shall obtain the appropriate license from the Superintendent, which may be renewed. The Superintendent, upon request, shall consult with, advise, and assist any person interested in securing and maintaining any such license. Each application for a license shall be made to the Superintendent, in such form as he may prescribe. It shall contain the name and address of the applicant and, if the applicant is an association, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation, the names and addresses of its officers and agents. The application shall also contain a description of the activities proposed to be engaged in and the facilities and services to be employed, together with other pertinent information as the Superintendent may require.

C. The licenses shall be issued on forms prescribed by the Superintendent. Any two or more licenses may be issued for concurrent operation of more than one child day program or family day system, but each license shall be issued upon a separate form. Each license for a family day home or family day system and renewals thereof may be issued for periods of up to three successive years, unless sooner revoked or surrendered. Licenses issued to child day centers under this chapter shall have a duration of two years from date of issuance.

D. The Superintendent may extend or shorten the duration of licensure periods for a child day program or family day system whenever, in his sole discretion, it is administratively necessary to redistribute the workload for greater efficiency in staff utilization.

E. Each license shall indicate the maximum number of persons who may be cared for in the child day program or family day system for which it is issued.

F. The license and any other documents required by the Superintendent shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.

G. Every person issued a license that has not been suspended or revoked shall renew such license prior to its expiration.

2020, cc. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860), [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861).

