# ยง 22.1-289.05 Uniform measurement and improvement system; regional entities; establishment.

A. The Board shall establish a uniform measurement and improvement system designed to provide parents and families with information about the quality and availability of publicly funded providers. Such system shall include:

1. Service provision and performance targets for children from birth to age five that align with standards for kindergarten readiness and early elementary grades;

2. Consistent quality standards;

3. Outcome-based measurements; and

4. Incentives to encourage participation and improvement.

B. All publicly funded providers shall be required to participate in the uniform measurement and improvement system established pursuant to subsection A. All other child day programs may participate in such system. Any participation in such system shall comply with all applicable federal laws and regulations, including the federal Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. ยง 9801 et seq.), as amended, and associated regulations.

C. The Board shall establish consequences for publicly funded providers that fail to participate in the uniform measurement and improvement system established pursuant to subsection A or persistently fail to meet minimal quality standards.

D. The Board shall establish a system of regional entities that will be responsible for coordinating early childhood care and education services, guiding quality improvement of such services and coordinated access to such services for families, and implementing the uniform measurement and improvement system.

2020, cc. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860), [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861); 2022, c. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0524).

