# ยง 22.1-50 Appointment and term generally; vacancies.

The school board of a school division composed of the city or town to which the provisions of this article are applicable shall be appointed by the governing body of such city or town and shall consist of three members for each district in such city or town. However, the school board of a school division composed of any city or town having only one district shall consist of five members. Members shall be appointed for three-year terms except that initial appointments shall be for such terms that the term of one member from each district expires each year. However, the additional two members of the school board of a school division composed of any city or town having only one district shall be appointed for such terms that the terms of one or two members expire each year. The governing body may, by duly adopted ordinance, limit the number of consecutive terms served by school board members. Terms shall commence on July 1. A vacancy occurring on the school board at any time other than by expiration of term shall be filled by the governing body for the unexpired term. Within 30 days preceding July 1 of each year, the governing body shall appoint a successor to each member whose term expires on June 30 of that year, provided the office of that member has not been abolished in redistricting the city or town.

Code 1950, ยง 22-89; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 78; 1972, c. 662; 1980, c. 559; 1991, c. 182; 1992, c. 182; 2022, c. [355](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0355).

