# § 22.1-7 Responsibility of each state board, agency, and institution having children in residence or in custody.

A. Each state board, state agency, and state institution having children in residence or in custody shall have responsibility for providing for the education and training to such children which is at least comparable to that which would be provided to such children in the public school system. Such board, agency, or institution may provide such education and training either directly with its own facilities and personnel in cooperation with the Board of Education or under contract with a school division or any other public or private nonreligious school, agency, or institution.

B. The Board of Education shall supervise the education and training provided to school-age individuals in state training centers, and shall provide for and direct the education for school-age individuals in state hospitals operated by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services in cooperation with the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services.

C. The Board shall prescribe standards and regulations for all such education and training provided directly by a state board, state agency, or state institution.

D. Each state board, state agency, or state institution providing such education and training shall submit annually its program therefor to the Board of Education for approval in accordance with regulations of the Board.

E. If any child in the custody of any state board, state agency, or state institution is a child with disabilities as defined in § [22.1-213](/vacode/22.1-213/) and such board, agency, or institution must contract with a private nonreligious school to provide special education as defined in § [22.1-213](/vacode/22.1-213/) for such child, the state board, state agency, or state institution may proceed as a guardian pursuant to the provisions of subsection A of § [22.1-218](/vacode/22.1-218/).

F. Any person of school age who is admitted pursuant to § [16.1-338](/vacode/16.1-338/), [16.1-339](/vacode/16.1-339/), or [16.1-340.1](/vacode/16.1-340.1/) or in accordance with an order of involuntary commitment entered pursuant to §§ [16.1-341](/vacode/16.1-341/) through [16.1-345](/vacode/16.1-345/) to a state facility for children and adolescents operated by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services shall, upon admission, be permitted to participate in any education program offered in the facility that is administered by the Department of Education, regardless of his enrollment status. Information required to enroll such person in any such education program may be disclosed in accordance with state and federal law. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require enrollment in an education program if such person has been excused from attendance at school pursuant to subdivision B 1 of § [22.1-254](/vacode/22.1-254/).

Code 1950, § 22-9.1:04; 1972, c. 603; 1974, c. 480; 1980, c. 559; 1985, c. 207; 1994, c. [854](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0854); 2005, c. [928](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0928); 2009, cc. [813](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813), [840](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840); 2012, cc. [476](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476), [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507); 2019, cc. [173](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0173), [281](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0281).

