# ยง 22.1-212.25 Information regarding online courses and virtual programs; report.

A. The Department shall develop and maintain a website that provides objective information for students, parents, and educators regarding online courses and virtual programs offered through local school boards by multidivision online providers that have been approved in accordance with ยง [22.1-212.24](/vacode/22.1-212.24/) and courses offered through the Virtual Virginia Program. The website shall include information regarding the overall instructional programs, the specific content of individual online courses and online programs, a direct link to each multidivision online provider's website, how to register for online learning programs and courses, teacher qualifications, course completion rates, and other evaluative and comparative information. The website shall also provide information regarding the process and criteria for approving multidivision online providers. Multidivision online providers shall provide the Department the required information for the website as a condition of maintaining Board approval.

B. The Superintendent shall develop model policies and procedures regarding student access to online courses and online learning programs that may be used by local school divisions.

Nothing in this article shall be deemed to require a local school division to adopt model policies or procedures developed pursuant to this section.

C. The Board shall include in its annual report to the Governor and the General Assembly information regarding multidivision online learning during the previous school year. The information shall include but not be limited to student demographics, course enrollment data, parental satisfaction, aggregated student course completion and passing rates, and activities and outcomes of course and provider approval reviews.

D. Local school boards shall post on their websites information regarding online courses and programs that are available through the school division and Virtual Virginia. Such information shall include but not be limited to the types of online courses and programs available to students through the school division, when the school division will pay course fees and other costs for nonresident students, and the granting of high school credit.

2010, cc. [537](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0537), [817](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0817); 2014, c. [436](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0436); 2022, c. [355](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0355).

