# § 22.1-30 Certain officers may not act on school board or serve as tie breaker.

A. No state, county, city or town officer, no deputy of any such officer, no member of the governing body of a county, city or town, no employee of a school board, and no father, mother, brother, sister, spouse, son, daughter, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, sister-in-law or brother-in-law of a member of the county governing body may, during his term of office, be appointed as a member of the school board for such county, city or town or as tie breaker for such school board except:

1. Local directors of social services;

2. Commissioners in chancery;

3. Commissioners of accounts;

4. Registrars of vital records and health statistics;

5. Notaries public;

6. Clerks and employees of the federal government in the District of Columbia;

7. Medical examiners;

8. Officers and employees of the District of Columbia;

9. In Northumberland County, oyster inspectors;

10. In Lunenburg County, members of the county library board and members of the local board of social services;

11. Auxiliary deputy sheriffs and auxiliary police officers receiving less than five dollars in annual compensation;

12. Members of the town councils serving towns within Craig, Giles and Wise Counties; and

13. Public defenders.

B. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the election of deputies of constitutional officers to school board membership, consistent with federal law and regulation.

Code 1950, §§ 22-69, 22-92; 1973, c. 63; 1980, c. 559; 1986, c. 260; 1990, c. 111; 1991, cc. 140, 163; 1993, c. 352; 1994, c. [723](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0723); 1995, c. [290](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0290); 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747).

