# ยง 22.1-277.05 Long-term suspensions; procedures; readmission.

A. A pupil may be suspended from attendance at school for 11 to 45 school days after providing written notice to the pupil and his parent of the proposed action and the reasons therefor and of the right to a hearing before the school board, or a committee thereof, or the superintendent or his designee, in accordance with regulations of the school board. If the regulations provide for a hearing by the superintendent or his designee, the regulations shall also provide for an appeal of the decision to the full school board. Such appeal shall be decided by the school board within 30 days.

If the regulations provide for a hearing by a committee of the school board, the regulations shall also provide that such committee may confirm or disapprove the suspension of a student. Any such committee of the school board shall be composed of at least three members. If the committee's decision is not unanimous, the pupil or his parent may appeal the committee's decision to the full school board. Such appeal shall be decided by the school board within 30 days.

B. A school board shall include in the written notice of a suspension for 11 to 45 school days required by this section notification of the length of the suspension. In the case of a suspension for 11 to 45 school days, such written notice shall provide information concerning the availability of community-based educational, alternative education, or intervention programs. Such notice shall also state that the student is eligible to return to regular school attendance upon the expiration of the suspension or to attend an appropriate alternative education program approved by the school board during or upon the expiration of the suspension. The costs of any community-based educational, alternative education, or intervention program that is not a part of the educational program offered by the school division that the student may attend during his suspension shall be borne by the parent of the student.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the school board from permitting or requiring students suspended pursuant to this section to attend an alternative education program provided by the school board for the term of such suspension.

School boards shall adopt policies and procedures to ensure that suspended students are able to access and complete graded work during and after the suspension.

C. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A and B, a long-term suspension may extend beyond a 45-school-day period but shall not exceed 364 calendar days if (i) the offense is one described in ยง [22.1-277.07](/vacode/22.1-277.07/) or [22.1-277.08](/vacode/22.1-277.08/) or involves serious bodily injury or (ii) the school board or division superintendent or his designee finds that aggravating circumstances exist, as defined by the Department. Such definition shall include a consideration of a student's disciplinary history.

1998, c. [806](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0806), ยง 22.1-277.03; 2001, cc. [688](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0688), [820](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0820); 2018, c. [491](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0491); 2020, c. [337](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0337).

