# ยง 22.1-113 Town school division's share of county school funds.

A. Funds to be paid by county treasurer to town treasurer. -- For the benefit of each school division composed of a town, the treasurer of the county in which the town is located shall pay over to the town treasurer, if and when properly bonded, the following funds to be used for public school purposes within such town school division:

1. From the amount derived from a county school levy for public school purposes, a sum equal to the pro rata amount from such levy derived from such town;

2. From federal funds allocated to and received by the county on the basis of federally-connected pupils for operations or capital outlay purposes, to be apportioned between the county and the town on the same basis of distribution as used in making the allotment of such federal funds to the county and in the ratio that such federally-connected pupils residing in the town bear to the total of such federally-connected pupils residing in the county including the town and which were included in the county's application for such federal funds.

B. Division located in adjoining counties. -- Where a town school division is located partly in each of two adjoining counties and operated by a town school board created or constituted by the charter of such town, each county treasurer shall pay over to the town treasurer, if and when properly bonded, from the amount derived from a county school levy or appropriations in each respective county for public school purposes, a sum equal to the pro rata amount from such levy or appropriations derived from such town to be used for public school purposes within the town school division.

C. State funds from special sources. -- None of the provisions of this section shall require the county treasurer to pay over to the town treasurer of a town school division any funds received from the Commonwealth from special sources, including funds distributed to the localities from the profit realized from the operation of the state alcoholic beverage control system, when the town has received direct appropriations or allocations from the Commonwealth from the same special sources.

Code 1950, ยง 140.1; 1972, c. 663; 1980, c. 559.

