# ยง 22.1-144 Recovery of moneys due Fund.

Any funds which ought to be paid into the State Treasury to the credit of the Literary Fund shall, unless otherwise provided, be recoverable with interest. Proceedings to recover such funds shall be instituted by the Board of Education in the name of the Commonwealth in the appropriate circuit court.

The Board may appoint agents for the collection of its debts or claims and authorize them to secure payment thereof on such terms as it may approve.

When the estate of any person that is taken under execution or that is for sale under any decree or deed of trust for any debt or claim due the Literary Fund or for any fine will not sell for the amount of such debt, claim or fine, such agent may, under the direction of the Board as to the price, purchase such estate for the Board. He shall immediately report to it every such purchase and the terms thereof. The Board may sell, or appoint an agent to sell, any estate so purchased. Such agent shall sell at such time and on such terms as the Board may authorize. The Board shall take bond from such agent if any money is to come into his hands. Any agent selling land under this section shall, when directed so to do by the Board, execute a deed, with the resolution giving such direction thereto annexed, conveying to the purchaser all the interest which the Board may have in such land. For the service of any agent under this section, the Board may allow compensation, not exceeding in any case ten per centum of the money actually paid into the State Treasury.

Code 1950, ยง 22-104; 1980, c. 559.

