# ยง 22.1-213 Definitions.

As used in this article:

"Children with disabilities" means those persons (i) who are age two to 21, inclusive, having reached the age of two by the date specified in ยง [22.1-254](/vacode/22.1-254/); (ii) who have intellectual disability or serious emotional disturbance, are physically disabled, speech impaired, deaf or hard of hearing, visually impaired, or multiple disabled, are otherwise health impaired, including those who have autism spectrum disorder or a specific learning disability, or are otherwise disabled as defined by the Board of Education; and (iii) who because of such impairments need special education.

"Related services" means transportation and such developmental, corrective, and other supportive services as are required to assist a disabled child to benefit from special education, including speech pathology and audiology, psychological services, physical and occupational therapy, recreation, early identification and assessment of disabilities in children, counseling services, and medical services for diagnostic or evaluation purposes. "Related services" also includes school health services, social work services in schools, and parent counseling and training.

"Special education" means specially designed instruction at no cost to the parent to meet the unique needs of a disabled child, including classroom instruction, home instruction, instruction provided in hospitals and institutions, instruction in physical education, and instruction in career and technical education.

"Specific learning disability" means a disorder in one or more of the basic psychological processes involved in understanding or using language, spoken or written, which may manifest itself in an imperfect ability to listen, think, speak, read, write, spell, or do mathematical calculations. "Specific learning disability" does not include children who have learning problems that are primarily the result of visual, hearing, or motor handicaps, of intellectual disability, or of environmental, cultural, or economic disadvantage.

Code 1950, ยง 22-10.3; 1974, c. 480; 1978, c. 386; 1980, c. 559; 1983, c. 538; 1990, c. 444; 1994, c. [854](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0854); 2001, c. [483](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0483); 2012, cc. [476](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476), [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507); 2019, c. [288](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0288).

