# ยง 22.1-289.022 Enforcement and sanctions; child day programs and family day systems; revocation and denial.

A. The Superintendent may revoke or deny the renewal of the license of any child day program or family day system that violates any provision of this chapter or fails to comply with the limitations and standards set forth in its license.

B. Pursuant to the procedures set forth in subsection C, and in addition to the authority for other disciplinary actions provided in this title, the Superintendent may issue a notice of summary suspension of the license of any child day program or family day system, in conjunction with any proceeding for revocation, denial, or other action, when conditions or practices exist in the child day program or family day system that pose an immediate and substantial threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the children receiving care, and the Superintendent believes the operation of the child day program or family day system should be suspended during the pendency of such proceeding.

C. A notice of summary suspension issued by the Superintendent to a child day program or family day system shall set forth (i) the summary suspension procedures; (ii) hearing and appeal rights as provided in this subsection; (iii) facts and evidence that formed the basis for the summary suspension; and (iv) the time, date, and location of a hearing to determine whether the summary suspension is appropriate. Such notice shall be served on the child day program or family day system or its designee as soon as practicable thereafter by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of record of the child day program or family day system.

The summary suspension hearing shall be presided over by a hearing officer selected by the Superintendent from a list prepared by the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia and shall be held as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days following service of the notice of summary suspension; however, the hearing officer may grant a written request for a continuance, not to exceed an additional 10 business days, for good cause shown. Within 10 business days after such hearing, the hearing officer shall provide to the Superintendent written findings and conclusions, together with a recommendation as to whether the license should be summarily suspended.

Within 10 business days of the receipt of the hearing officer's findings, conclusions, and recommendation, the Superintendent may issue a final order of summary suspension or an order that such summary suspension is not warranted by the facts and circumstances presented. The Superintendent shall adopt the hearing officer's recommended decision unless to do so would be an error of law or Department policy. In the event that the Superintendent rejects the hearing officer's findings, conclusions, or recommendation, the Superintendent shall state with particularity the basis for rejection. In issuing a final order of summary suspension, the Superintendent may choose to suspend the license of the child day program or family day system or to suspend only certain authority of the child day program or family day system to operate, including the authority to provide certain services or perform certain functions that the Superintendent determines should be restricted or modified in order to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the children receiving care. A final order of summary suspension shall include notice that the licensee may appeal the Superintendent's decision to the appropriate circuit court no later than 10 days following service of the order. The sole issue before the court shall be whether the Superintendent had reasonable grounds to require the licensee to cease operations during the pendency of the concurrent revocation, denial, or other proceeding. The concurrent revocation, denial, or other proceeding shall not be affected by the outcome of any hearing on the appropriateness of the summary suspension.

A copy of any final order of summary suspension shall be prominently displayed by the child day program or family day system at each public entrance of the facility, or in lieu thereof, the child day program or family day system may display a written statement summarizing the terms of the order in a prominent location, printed in a clear and legible size and typeface, and identifying the location within the facility where the final order of summary suspension may be reviewed.

The willful and material failure to comply with the final order of summary suspension constitutes a violation of subdivision 3 of ยง [22.1-289.027](/vacode/22.1-289.027/).

The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any child day program or family day system operated by an agency of the Commonwealth, which shall instead be governed by the provisions of subsection D.

D. Whenever the Superintendent issues a summary order of suspension of the license to operate a child day program or family day system operated by an agency of the Commonwealth:

1. Before such summary order of suspension shall take effect, the Superintendent shall issue to the child day program or family day system a notice of summary order of suspension setting forth (i) the procedures for a hearing and right of review as provided in this section and (ii) facts and evidence that formed the basis on which the summary order of suspension is sought. Such notice shall be served on the licensee or its designee as soon as practicable thereafter by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of record of the licensee. The notice shall state the time, date, and location of a hearing to determine whether the suspension is appropriate. Such hearing shall be held no later than three business days after the issuance of the notice of the summary order of suspension and shall be convened by the Superintendent or his designee. After such hearing, the Superintendent may issue a final order of summary suspension or may find that such summary suspension is not warranted by the facts and circumstances presented.

2. A final order of summary suspension shall include notice that the licensee may request, in writing and within three business days after receiving the Superintendent's decision, that the Superintendent refer the matter to the Secretary of Education for resolution within three business days of the referral. Any determination by the Secretary shall be final and not subject to judicial review. If the final order of summary suspension is upheld, it shall take effect immediately, and a copy of the final order of summary suspension shall be prominently displayed by the licensee at each public entrance of the facility. Any concurrent revocation, denial, or other proceedings shall not be affected by the outcome of any determination by the Secretary.

2020, cc. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0860), [861](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0861).

