# ยง 23.1-908 State Transfer Tool.

A. The Council shall develop, in cooperation with the System and each public institution of higher education, a State Transfer Tool that designates each general education course, in addition to the courses that comprise the Uniform Certificate of General Studies Program and the Passport Program, that is offered in an associate degree program at an associate-degree-granting public institution of higher education and transferable for course credit to a baccalaureate public institution of higher education. In developing the State Transfer Tool, the Council shall also seek the participation of private institutions of higher education.

B. The Council shall develop guidelines to govern the development and implementation of articulation, dual admissions, and guaranteed admissions agreements between associate-degree-granting public institutions of higher education and baccalaureate public institutions of higher education. Dual admissions agreements shall set forth (i) the obligations of each student accepted to such a program, including grade point average requirements, acceptable associate degree majors, and completion timetables, and (ii) the extent to which each student accepted to such a program may access the privileges of enrollment at both institutions while he is enrolled at either institution. Such agreements are subject to the admissions requirements of the baccalaureate public institutions of higher education.

C. Each baccalaureate public institution of higher education shall update its transfer agreements immediately following any program modifications and shall send a copy of its updated agreement and any other transfer-related documents and resources to the System. The Council shall also send to the System a copy of any transfer-related guidelines and resources that it possesses. The System shall maintain an online portal that allows access to all such agreements, documents, and resources. The online portal shall also include (i) documents and resources related to course equivalency, (ii) pathway maps established pursuant to subsection E of ยง [23.1-907](/vacode/23.1-907/), (iii) the transfer tool established pursuant to subsection A, (iv) information regarding dual enrollment courses as described in ยง [23.1-905.1](/vacode/23.1-905.1/), and (v) any other information required to be included by law or deemed relevant by the System. The online portal shall be available to the public on the websites of the Council, the System, each public institution of higher education, and each school division offering a dual enrollment course.

2004, c. [553](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0553), ยง 23-9.14:2; 2005, c. [818](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0818); 2006, c. [379](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0379); 2014, c. [628](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0628); 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588); 2017, c. [521](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0521); 2018, cc. [832](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0832), [845](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0845).

