# ยง 23.1-1241 Approval and update of memorandum of understanding.

A. In order to support the goal of the creation of at least 25,000 new eligible degrees by 2039, the amount of grants available under this chapter shall be calculated in accordance with a memorandum of understanding negotiated with each qualified institution. Each memorandum of understanding shall contain criteria for eligible degrees, eligible expenses, and degree production goals for the institution to reach by 2039.

B. Each memorandum of understanding shall be structured in accordance with and be consistent with the objectives and purposes of this chapter and the criteria and requirements developed by, and in the form and manner prescribed by, the Secretary of Finance in consultation with the other designated reviewers. Such criteria and requirements shall include:

1. The submission of an enrollment plan by the qualified institution detailing the number of eligible degrees produced between July 1, 2013, and June 30, 2018;

2. A detailed plan of (i) how the qualified institution proposes to materially increase the enrollment, retention, and graduation of students pursuing eligible degrees, (ii) the resources necessary to accomplish such increase in enrollment, retention, and graduation, and (iii) how the qualified institution plans to track new enrollment;

3. An accounting of the anticipated number of in-state and out-of-state students enrolling in eligible degree programs;

4. The existing capacity of current eligible degree programs, and an estimate of the amount of funding necessary to grow the qualified institution's enrollment capacity pursuant to the plan submitted pursuant to subdivision 2;

5. Where applicable, proposed plans to partner with other qualified institutions to provide courses or programs that will lead to the completion of an eligible degree;

6. Where applicable, existing or proposed articulation agreements with the Virginia Community College System to provide guaranteed admission for qualified students with an associate degree for transfer into an eligible degree program;

7. A proposed reallocation of existing funds held by or appropriated to the qualified institution to meet increased enrollment, retention, and graduation goals in eligible degree programs; and

8. Any other information deemed relevant.

C. The designated reviewers shall review each qualified institution's proposed memorandum of understanding, or amendments thereto; provide comments or affirmation to the qualified institution by September 1 of the applicable year; and forward the proposed memorandum of understanding and any comments or affirmations to the Governor for approval of specific funding recommendations.

D. The Secretary of Finance, in consultation with the other designated reviewers, shall make a recommendation regarding the amount of annual grant payments for which a qualified institution may be eligible pursuant to its memorandum of understanding. In determining the appropriate amount of such grants, the Secretary and designated reviewers shall consider (i) the actual cost of eligible degrees at the qualified institution, (ii) the number of students enrolled in qualified degree programs adjusted for actual graduation rates at the qualified institution, (iii) tuition revenues generated by in-state and out-of-state students in eligible degree programs at the qualified institution, and (iv) the reallocation of other funds held by or appropriated to the qualified institution for eligible new degree programs. A qualified institution shall be eligible to receive grants pursuant to this chapter, and subject to appropriation, upon signature of the memorandum of understanding by the Governor.

E. A qualified institution with an approved memorandum of understanding may request an update to its memorandum of understanding no more than once annually and no later than July 1 of each year. The designated reviewers shall review the request and determine if an update is warranted. The Secretary of Finance, in consultation with the other designated reviewers, may request that a qualified institution update its agreement at any point during the year. No amendment to a memorandum of understanding shall be final until signed by the Governor.

F. A new or amended memorandum of understanding shall be approved and signed pursuant to subsection D no later than November 1 in order for a qualified institution to apply for a grant in the next fiscal year.

2019, cc. [638](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0638), [639](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0639).

