# ยง 23.1-3008 Medical School; additional powers; revenues, fees, rents, and other charges for projects.

A. The Medical School may fix, revise, charge, and collect revenues, fees, rents, and other charges for the use of any project. Such revenues, fees, rents, and other charges shall be fixed and adjusted to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues to pay the principal of and any interest on bonds secured by or otherwise to be paid by such revenues as such principal and interest become due and payable; to create reserves for such purposes and for other purposes of the Medical School; and to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the project. Such revenues, fees, rents, and charges are not subject to supervision or regulation by any commission, board, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth or any such participating political subdivision.

B. The revenues, fees, rents, and other charges received by the Medical School may be applied and set aside in such order and manner as may be provided in such trust indenture, trust, or other agreement, or the resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds, including application to a sinking fund that may be pledged to and charged with the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds as such principal and interest become due and the redemption price or purchase price of such bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in such trust indenture, trust, or other agreement, or the resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds.

C. All pledges of such revenues, fees, rents, and other charges to payment of bonds are valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made.

D. The revenues, fees, rents, and charges pledged and received by the Medical School are immediately subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery or further act and the lien of any such pledge is valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract, or otherwise against the Medical School, regardless of whether such parties have notice of the lien.

E. No trust indenture, trust, or other agreement, or resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, by which a pledge is created is required to be filed or recorded except in the records of the Medical School.

F. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund are subject to the provisions of such trust indenture, trust, or other agreement, or the resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds. Except as otherwise provided in such trust indenture, trust, or other agreement, or the resolution providing for the issuance of such bonds, such sinking fund is a fund for all such bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.

2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588).

