# ยง 23.1-3227 Virginia Commission for the Arts Fund.

A. There is created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Commission for the Arts Fund, referred to in this article as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller.

B. The Fund shall include such funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly; revenues transferred to the Fund from the special license plates for Virginians for the Arts program pursuant to ยง [46.2-749.2:2](/vacode/46.2-749.2:2/); voluntary contributions collected through the income tax checkoff for the arts pursuant to subdivision B 8 of ยง [58.1-344.3](/vacode/58.1-344.3/); and designated gifts, contributions, and bequests of money, securities, or property of any other character.

C. All money, securities, or other property designated for the Fund shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by persons authorized by the Commission. The Fund's principal is not subject to expenditure by the Commission.

2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588); 2022, c. [437](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0437).

