# § 23.1-3112 Board of directors.

A. New College shall be governed by a 15-member board of directors (the board) that shall consist of five legislative members and 10 nonlegislative citizen members. Members shall be appointed as follows: three members of the House of Delegates, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the rules of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates; two members of the Senate, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and 10 nonlegislative citizen members, three of whom shall be representatives of business and industry from the Commonwealth, to be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. At least 13 members shall be residents of the Commonwealth.

Legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office.

B. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for terms of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. All members may be reappointed.

No nonlegislative citizen member is eligible to serve more than two consecutive four-year terms; however, a member appointed to serve an unexpired term is eligible to serve two consecutive four-year terms immediately succeeding such unexpired term.

C. The board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership and may establish bylaws as necessary. The meetings of the board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

D. Nonlegislative citizen members are not entitled to compensation for their services. Legislative members of the board shall be compensated as provided in § [30-19.12](/vacode/30-19.12/). All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties in the work of New College as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). The funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by New College.

2006, cc. [808](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0808), [842](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0842), § 23-231.31; 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588); 2020, c. [878](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0878).

