# ยง 23.1-1227 Powers; issuance of revenue bonds.

A. The Authority may issue revenue bonds for any corporate purpose, and all such revenue bonds, notes, bond anticipation notes, or other obligations of the Authority issued pursuant to this article are negotiable for all purposes, notwithstanding their payment from a limited source and without regard to any other law.

B. In anticipation of the sale of such revenue bonds, the Authority may issue and renew negotiable bond anticipation notes, but the maximum maturity of any such note, including renewals, shall not exceed five years from the date on which the original note was issued. Such notes shall be paid from any revenues of the Authority available for such purpose and not otherwise pledged or from the proceeds of sale of the Authority's revenue bonds issued in anticipation of such sale. Such notes shall be issued in the same manner as the revenue bonds. Such notes and the resolution authorizing such notes may contain any provisions, conditions, or limitations that the Authority may include in a bond resolution.

C. The revenue bonds and notes of every issue are payable solely out of revenues to the Authority, subject only to any agreement with (i) the holders of particular revenue bonds or notes to pledge any particular revenues or (ii) any participating institution.

D. Revenue bonds and notes are negotiable instruments that are subject only to the provisions of the revenue bonds and notes for registration but may be payable from a special fund.

E. Revenue bonds may be issued as serial bonds, term bonds, or both. Revenue bonds shall be authorized by resolution of the members of the Authority and bear such date, mature at such time, not exceeding 50 years from such date, bear interest at such rate or rates that is payable at such time, be in such denomination, be in such form, either coupon or registered, carry such registration privileges, be executed in such manner, be payable in lawful United States currency at such place, and be subject to such terms of redemption as such resolution provides. Revenue bonds or notes may be sold at public or private sale for such price or prices as the Authority determines. Pending preparation of the definitive bonds, the Authority may issue interim receipts or certificates that shall be exchanged for such definitive bonds.

F. Any resolution authorizing revenue bonds or any issue of revenue bonds may contain provisions, which shall be a part of the contract with the holders of such revenue bonds, relating to:

1. Pledging all or any part of the revenues of a project, to any revenue-producing contract made by the Authority with any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other public or private body to secure the payment of the revenue bonds or any particular issue of revenue bonds, subject to any existing agreements with bondholders;

2. Charging rentals, fees, and other charges and setting forth the amounts to be raised annually with such charges and the use and disposition of the revenues;

3. Establishing, setting aside, regulating, and disposing of reserves or sinking funds;

4. Limiting the right of the Authority or its agent to restrict and regulate the use of the project;

5. Limiting the purpose to which the proceeds of the sale of any issue of revenue bonds to be issued may be applied and pledging such proceeds to secure the payment of the revenue bonds or any issue of the revenue bonds;

6. Limiting the issuance of additional bonds, the terms upon which additional bonds may be issued and secured, and the refunding of outstanding bonds;

7. Establishing a procedure by which the terms of any contract with bondholders may be amended or abrogated that includes the number of bondholders required to consent to such amendment or abrogation and the manner in which such consent may be given;

8. Limiting the amount of moneys derived from the project to be expended for operating, administrative, or other expenses of the Authority;

9. Defining the acts or omissions that constitute a default in the duties of the Authority to holders of its obligations and providing the rights and remedies of such holders in the event of a default;

10. Setting forth the duties, obligations, and liabilities of any trustee or paying agent; and

11. Mortgaging a project and the site of such project for the purpose of securing the bondholders.

G. Neither the members of the Authority nor any person executing revenue bonds or notes is liable personally on the revenue bonds or notes or is subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance of such revenue bonds or notes.

H. The Authority may purchase its bonds or notes with funds available for such purpose. The Authority may hold, pledge, cancel, or resell such bonds or notes subject to and in accordance with agreements with bondholders.

1972, c. 686, ยง 23-30.47; 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588).

