# ยง 23.1-1229 Powers and duties; rates, rents, fees and charges; sinking fund.

A. The Authority may fix, revise, charge, and collect rates, rents, fees, and charges for the use of and the services furnished by each project and contract with any person, partnership, association, corporation, or other public or private body to perform such acts. The aggregate of such rates, rents, fees, and charges shall be fixed and adjusted to provide funds that, when combined with other revenues, is sufficient to (i) pay the uncovered cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating each portion of the project; (ii) pay the principal of and the interest on outstanding revenue bonds of the Authority as such principal and interest becomes due and payable; and (iii) create and maintain reserves required or provided for in any resolution authorizing, or trust agreement securing, such revenue bonds of the Authority. No such rate, rent, fee, or charge shall be subject to supervision or regulation by any department, commission, board, body, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth other than the Authority.

B. The Authority shall set aside in a sinking fund or other similar fund a sufficient amount of the revenues derived from a project, except the part of such revenues that is necessary to pay the cost of maintenance, repair, and operation of the project, provide reserves, or make renewals, replacements, extensions, enlargements, and improvements as set forth in the resolution authorizing the issuance of any revenue bonds of the Authority or in the trust agreement securing such revenue bonds. The Authority shall pledge such sinking fund or other similar fund to pay the principal of and the interest on such revenue bonds as such principal and interest becomes due and the redemption or purchase price of bonds retired by call or purchase as provided in the resolution authorizing the issuance of any revenue bonds of the Authority or in the trust agreement securing such revenue bonds. Such pledge is valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made. The rates, rents, fees, and charges and other revenues or moneys so pledged and received by the Authority shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery or further act. The lien of any such pledge is valid and binding against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract, or otherwise against the Authority, irrespective of whether such parties have notice of such lien. No resolution authorizing the issuance of any revenue bonds of the Authority or trust agreement by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded except in the records of the Authority. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund or other similar fund is subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of such trust agreement. Such sinking fund or other similar fund is a fund for all such revenue bonds issued to finance a project by a participating institution, without distinction or priority of one revenue bond over another, but the Authority may provide in any such resolution or trust agreement (i) that such sinking fund or other similar fund is the fund for a particular project by a participating institution and the revenue bonds issued to finance a particular project and (ii) for the issuance of revenue bonds having a subordinate lien to other revenue bonds of the Authority with respect to the security authorized and, in such case, the Authority may create separate or other similar funds with respect to such subordinate lien bonds.

1972, c. 686, ยง 23-30.50; 2016, cc. [532](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0532), [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588), [658](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0658).

