# ยง 23.1-1201 Virginia College Building Authority established.

A. The Virginia College Building Authority is established as a public body corporate and a political subdivision, agency, and instrumentality of the Commonwealth. The Authority is vested with the powers, rights, and duties conferred in this chapter.

B. The Authority shall consist of the State Treasurer, the State Comptroller, the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget, and the Director of the Council, all of whom shall serve ex officio, and seven additional members appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Each member shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. Appointed members shall serve for a term of four years. Ex officio members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No appointed member shall serve more than two consecutive terms.

C. The Governor shall appoint one member as chairman who shall serve a two-year term. No member is eligible to serve more than two consecutive terms as chairman. The chairman shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority and shall receive such compensation as the Governor determines. No ex officio member is eligible to serve as chairman.

D. The Authority shall elect one appointed member as vice-chairman, who shall exercise the powers of the chairman in the absence of the chairman.

E. The Authority shall elect a treasurer, a secretary, and an assistant secretary to perform the duties and functions commonly performed by such officers. All such officers, except the secretary and the assistant secretary, shall be selected from members of the Authority. The secretary and the assistant secretary may receive such compensation as the Authority provides.

F. Each appointed member of the Authority and the secretary and the assistant secretary shall execute a surety bond in such penal sum as shall be determined by the Attorney General to be (i) conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office, (ii) executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth as surety, (iii) approved by the Attorney General, and (iv) filed in the office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth.

G. Six members of the Authority shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business of the Authority.

1964, c. 607, ยง 23-30.25; 1966, c. 685; 1980, c. 728; 1986, c. 597; 2011, cc. [691](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691), [714](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714); 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588).

