# ยง 23.1-2403 Chief executive officer of the Authority.

A. The Authority shall be under the immediate supervision and direction of a chief executive officer, subject to the policies and direction established by the board. The chief executive officer shall be the individual who holds the title of Vice-President for Health Sciences of Virginia Commonwealth University, or such other title as subsequently may be established by the board of visitors of the University for the chief academic and administrative officer for the Health Sciences Schools of the University. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, the selection and removal of the chief executive officer, and the conditions of appointment, including salary, shall be made jointly by the board and the board of visitors of the University at a joint meeting of the board and the board of visitors of the University upon a vote of a majority of the members of each board present and voting at the aforementioned joint meeting, acting separately in accordance with applicable provisions of law.

B. In the event that a majority of the members of each board do not agree upon the selection, removal, or conditions of appointment, including salary, of the chief executive officer as provided in subsection A, then each board shall appoint a committee of three members of its respective board to consider the matter upon which the boards disagree. The selection, removal, or conditions of appointment shall be made jointly by the two committees at a joint meeting of the committees upon a vote by a majority of the members of each committee present and voting at the joint meeting. In the event that a majority of the members of each committee agree upon the selection, removal, or conditions of appointment of the chief executive officer, then the decision shall be reported to the board and the board of visitors of the University, each of which shall be bound by the decision of the committees. In the event that a majority of the members of each committee do not agree on the selection, removal, or conditions of appointment of the chief executive officer within 30 days of the appointment of the committees by each board, then the president of the University shall decide upon the matter upon which the committees disagree. The president of the University shall report his decision to both boards, each of which shall be bound by the decision of the president.

C. The chief executive officer shall devote his full time to the performance of his official duties and shall not be engaged in any other profession or occupation.

D. The chief executive officer shall supervise and administer the operation of the Authority in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

1996, cc. [905](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0905), [1046](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1046), ยง 23-50.16:7; 2000, c. [720](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0720); 2014, cc. [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0003), [456](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0456); 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588).

