# ยง 23.1-3222 Virginia Commission for the Arts established; purpose; membership.

A. The Virginia Commission for the Arts (the Commission) is established as a supervisory commission within the meaning of ยง [2.2-2100](/vacode/2.2-2100/) in the executive branch of state government.

B. The Commission is designated the official agency of the Commonwealth to receive and disburse any funds made available to the Commonwealth by the National Endowment for the Arts and the Fund pursuant to ยง [23.1-3227](/vacode/23.1-3227/).

C. The Commission shall consist of 13 members appointed by the Governor subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. No employee of the Commonwealth or member of the General Assembly is eligible for appointment as a member of the Commission. At least one but no more than two members shall be appointed from each congressional district in the Commonwealth.

D. Members shall be appointed for one term of five years; however, a member appointed to serve an unexpired term is eligible to serve a full five-year term immediately succeeding the unexpired term. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. No member who serves a full five-year term is eligible for reappointment during the five-year period following the expiration of his term.

E. The Commission shall elect a chairman from among its membership.

F. A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.

G. The members of the Commission shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in ยง [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/).

 H. Any person designated by the board to handle the funds of the Commission shall give bond, with corporate surety, in a penalty fixed by the Governor, conditioned upon the faithful discharge of his duties. Any premium on the bond shall be paid from funds available to the Commission. 

2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588); 2022, c. [437](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0437).

