# ยง 23.1-1206 Powers; acquisition or disposition of equipment.

A. The Authority may (i) acquire equipment or any interest in equipment by purchase, exchange, gift, lease, or otherwise; (ii) sell, exchange, donate, convey, lease, and dispose of such equipment or any portion of or interest in such equipment, including security interests in such equipment; and (iii) retain or receive security interests in such equipment.

B. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, eligible institutions may grant security interests in or other liens on equipment held or acquired by the eligible institution under any lease or agreement of sale with the Authority.

C. The Authority may acquire equipment with any funds of the Authority available for such purpose. Acquisition and disposition of equipment may be at public or private sale and for such price and on such terms as the Authority determines, provided that the Authority finances the acquisition of equipment for sale to eligible institutions only pursuant to standards and procedures approved through the Commonwealth's budget and appropriation process. The budget document shall present any lease payments and the corresponding total value of equipment to be acquired by each eligible institution. Each eligible institution shall make available such additional detail on specific equipment to be purchased as may be requested by the Governor or the General Assembly. If emergency acquisitions and leases are necessary when the General Assembly is not in session, the Governor may approve such acquisitions and leases. Prior to such acquisitions and leases, the Governor shall submit such proposed acquisitions and leases to the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations for their review and approval.

D. The Authority may establish and maintain such accounts as it deems appropriate to provide funds for acquisition of equipment on a continuing basis. The Authority may deposit in such accounts such funds as it deems appropriate, including the proceeds of any Authority bonds issued to finance the purchase of equipment and payments made to the Authority under equipment lease or sale agreements with eligible institutions or other entities. Any moneys held in such accounts may be (i) used to secure payment of principal of and interest on any Authority bonds, whether issued to finance the purchase of equipment, issued to pay administrative costs of the authority, or incurred in connection with the purchase, lease, or sale of equipment, or (ii) transferred by the Authority to be used in connection with any other program of the Authority. No funds of the Authority derived from the equipment program authorized under this section may be used in connection with the issuance or securing of indebtedness for the benefit of private institutions of higher education pursuant to Article 2 (ยง [23.1-1220](/vacode/23.1-1220/) et seq.).

E. The Authority may (i) determine and charge rent or determine sale prices for equipment that it leases or sells to eligible institutions and terminate such lease or sale agreements upon the failure of an eligible institution to comply with any obligations contained in such agreements or (ii) include in such lease agreements options for the eligible institution to renew the lease or purchase any or all of the leased equipment and provisions for the Authority to repossess and sell equipment leased or sold upon any default under the lease or sale agreement.

1986, c. 597, ยง 23-30.27:1; 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588).

