# § 23.1-3113 Powers and duties of the board.

A. The board has, in addition to its other powers, all the corporate powers given to corporations by the provisions of Title 13.1, except in those cases where, by the express terms of its provisions, the law is confined to corporations created under that title. The board shall have the power to accept, execute, and administer any trust in which it may have an interest under the terms of the instrument creating the trust.

B. The board shall oversee the educational programs of New College and may enter into and administer agreements with institutions of higher education for such institutions to provide continuing education, instructional programs, and degree programs at New College. The board shall seek opportunities to collaborate with local comprehensive community colleges to meet specialized noncredit workforce training needs identified by industry. However, if local comprehensive community colleges are unable to meet identified industry needs, then the board may seek to collaborate with other education providers or other public and private organizations to provide or itself may provide specialized noncredit workforce training independent of local comprehensive community colleges.

C. The board, with the prior approval of the Governor, may lease, sell, and convey any and all real estate to which New College has acquired title by gift, devise, or purchase. The proceeds derived from any such lease, sale, or conveyance shall be held by New College upon the identical trusts, and subject to the same uses, limitations, and conditions, if any, that are expressed in the original deed or will under which its title has derived. If no such trusts, uses, limitations, or conditions are expressed in such original deed or will, then such funds shall be applied by the board to such purposes as it may deem best for New College.

D. The board may, on behalf of New College, apply for, accept, and expend gifts, grants, or donations from public or private sources to enable it to carry out the purposes of this article.

E. The board may request and accept the cooperation of agencies of the Commonwealth or the local governing bodies in Southside Virginia, or the agencies of the Commonwealth or such local governing bodies in the performance of its duties.

F. The board shall direct the development and focus of New College's curriculum to include appropriate degree and nondegree programs offered by other educational institutions.

2006, cc. [808](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0808), [842](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0842), §§ 23-231.32, 23-231.33, 23-231.34, 23-231.36; 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588); 2018, c. [754](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0754); 2022, c. [658](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0658).

