# ยง 23.1-2417 Insurance for employees of the Authority.

The Authority shall purchase group life, accidental death and dismemberment, and disability insurance policies covering in whole or in part its employees. Authority employees are not required to present at their own expense evidence of insurability satisfactory to an insurance company for basic group life insurance coverage. Any employee hired prior to July 1, 1998, shall be provided basic group life insurance at the same level of coverage as provided by the Virginia Retirement System. Any employee hired on or after July 1, 1998, shall be provided basic group life insurance at a level of coverage determined by the board that is not less than the equivalent of the employee's annual salary. The Authority may require employees hired on or after July 1, 1998, to pay all or a portion of the required basic group life insurance coverage. Such payment may be collected through a payroll deduction program. The Authority may increase the insurance coverage under such policies to make available to active insured employees optional life, accidental death and dismemberment, and disability insurance. Authority employees are not covered by the Virginia Retirement System's group insurance program under ยง [51.1-501](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-501/).

1998, c. [449](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0449), ยง 23-50.16:24.2; 2016, c. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588).

