# § 24.2-416 Closing registration records before elections.

A. In any county, city, or town in which an election is being held, the registration records shall be closed for the purpose of registering voters on the election day and during the period in advance of the election as provided in this section. The registration records shall be closed during the 21 days before a primary or general election. If the registration records have not been closed previously for a primary or general election, they shall be closed during the six days before a special election called by the Governor, Speaker of the House of Delegates, or President pro tempore of the Senate, or pursuant to rule or resolution of either house of the General Assembly and during the 13 days before any other special election.

B. In the event that a failure of the Virginia online voter registration system occurs prior to the close of registration records pursuant to this section, the Governor shall have the authority to order the online voter registration system to be available for registration activities after the date for closing the registration records for a period of time equal to the amount of time during which the online voter registration system was unavailable for registration activities, rounded up to the nearest whole day, plus an additional day to allow for voter education efforts. During this period, persons shall be permitted to register in person and mail voter registration applications shall be accepted.

Code 1950, §§ 24-82, 24-83.1; 1962, c. 536; 1970, c. 462, § 24.1-50; 1973, c. 30; 1975, c. 515; 1993, c. 641; 2008, c. [424](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0424); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [159](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0159).

