# § 24.2-679 State Board to meet and make statement as to number of votes.

A. The State Board shall meet by the first Monday in December to ascertain the results of the November election. If a majority of the Board is not present or if, for any other reason, the Board is unable to ascertain the results on that day, the meeting shall stand adjourned from day to day for not more than three days until a quorum is present and the Board has ascertained the results as provided in this section.

The Board shall examine the certified abstracts on file in its office and make statements of the whole number of votes given at any such election for members of the General Assembly, Governor, Lieutenant Governor and Attorney General, members of the United States Congress and electors of President and Vice President of the United States, and any officer shared by more than one county or city, or any combination thereof, or for so many of such officers as have been voted for at the election.

The statement shall show, for each office and each county, city, and election district, the whole number of votes given to each candidate and to any other person elected to office. The Board members shall certify the statements to be correct and sign the statements. The Board shall then determine those persons who received the greatest number of votes and have been duly elected to each office. The Board members shall endorse and subscribe on such statements a certificate of their determination. The Board shall record each certified statement and determination in a suitable book to be kept by it in its office.

B. The State Board shall meet as soon as possible after it receives the returns for any special election held at a time other than the November general election to ascertain the results of the special election in the manner prescribed in subsection A. If the returns have not been received within seven days of the election, the Board shall meet and adjourn from day to day until it receives the returns, ascertains the results, and makes its determination.

Code 1950, §§ 24-285, 24-286, 24-287, 24-289; 1958, c. 605; 1962, c. 536; 1970, c. 462, §§ 24.1-154, 24.1-155; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 206; 1974, c. 428; 1980, c. 639; 1983, c. 461; 1993, c. 641; 2015, c. [740](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0740); 2022, cc. [443](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0443), [444](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0444).

