# § 24.2-801 Petition for recount; recount court.

A. The petition for a recount of an election, other than an election for presidential electors, shall be filed within 10 days from the day the State Board or the electoral board certifies the result of the election under § [24.2-679](/vacode/24.2-679/) or [24.2-671](/vacode/24.2-671/), but not thereafter. The petition shall be filed in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond in the case of any statewide office and in the circuit court of the county or city in which the candidate being challenged resides in the case of any other office. The petition shall be filed in the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond in the case of any statewide referendum and in the circuit court of any county or city comprising a part of the election district in the case of any other referendum.

B. The petition shall set forth the results certified by the State Board or electoral board and shall request the court to have the ballots in the election recounted.

C. In an election for office, a copy of the petition shall be served on the candidate apparently nominated or elected as provided under § [8.01-296](/vacode/8.01-296/) and within 10 days after the State Board or electoral board has certified the results of such election. In a referendum, a copy of the petition shall be so served on the governing body or chief executive officer of the jurisdiction in which the election was held.

D. The chief judge of the circuit court in which a petition is filed shall promptly notify the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Virginia, who shall designate two other judges to sit with the chief judge, and the court shall be constituted and sit in all respects as a court appointed and sitting under §§ [24.2-805](/vacode/24.2-805/) and [24.2-806](/vacode/24.2-806/).

1979, c. 293, § 24.1-249; 1981, c. 570; 1993, c. 641; 2003, c. [268](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0268); 2014, cc. [540](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0540), [576](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0576); 2016, c. [464](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0464); 2020, c. [886](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0886).

