# § 24.2-958.1 Requirements for radio advertisements sponsored by a candidate or candidate campaign committee.

It shall be unlawful for a candidate or a candidate campaign committee to sponsor a radio advertisement that constitutes an expenditure or contribution required to be disclosed under Chapter 9.3 (§ [24.2-945](/vacode/24.2-945/) et seq.) unless all of the following requirements are met:

1. The advertisement shall include the statement "Paid for by \_\_\_\_\_\_ [Name of candidate or candidate campaign committee as it appears on the statement of organization]." Alternatively, if the advertisement makes no reference to any clearly identified candidate other than the candidate who is sponsoring the advertisement or whose campaign committee is sponsoring the advertisement, then the statement "Paid for by \_\_\_\_\_\_ [Name of candidate or candidate campaign committee as it appears on the statement of organization]" may be replaced by the statement "Authorized by \_\_\_\_\_\_ [Name of candidate or candidate campaign committee as it appears on the statement of organization]."

2. If the advertisement supports or opposes the election or nomination of a clearly identified candidate other than the sponsoring candidate or supports or opposes the election or nomination of the sponsoring candidate and makes reference to another clearly identified candidate, it must include a disclosure statement spoken by the sponsoring candidate containing at least the following words: "I am (or 'This is \_\_\_\_\_\_ ') [Name of candidate], candidate for [Name of office], and this ad was paid for by (or 'sponsored by' or 'furnished by') [Name of candidate or candidate campaign committee as it appears on the statement of organization]."

3. The disclosure statement shall last at least two seconds and the statement shall be spoken so that its contents may be easily understood. The placement of the oral disclosure statement shall also comply with the requirements of the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 315 and 317.

4. In its oral disclosure statement, the candidate or the candidate campaign committee may choose to identify an advertisement as either supporting or opposing the nomination or election of one or more clearly identified candidates.

5. If an advertisement is jointly sponsored, the disclosure statement shall include the names of all the sponsors and the candidate shall be the disclosing individual. If more than one candidate is the sponsor, at least one of the candidates shall be the disclosing individual.

2002, c. [487](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0487), § 24.2-944; 2004, cc. [55](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0055), [457](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0457); 2005, c. [369](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0369); 2006, cc. [787](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0787), [892](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0892); 2020, c. [615](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0615).

