# § 24.2-222 Election and terms of mayor and council for cities and towns.

A. The qualified voters of each city and town shall elect a mayor, if so provided by charter, and a council for the terms provided by charter. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, general or special, in a city or town that imposes district-based or ward-based residency requirements for members of the city or town council, the member elected from each district or ward shall be elected by the qualified voters of that district or ward and not by the locality at large.

B. Except as provided in § [24.2-222.1](/vacode/24.2-222.1/), and notwithstanding any other provision of law, general or special: (i) any election of mayor or councilmen of a city or town whose charter provides for such elections at two-year or four-year intervals shall take place at the May general election of an even-numbered year and (ii) any election of mayor or councilmen of a city or town whose charter provides for such elections at one-year or three-year intervals shall take place at the general election in May of the years designated by charter. The persons so elected shall enter upon the duties of their offices on July 1 succeeding their election and remain in office until their successors have qualified.

Code 1950, §§ 24-160, 24-168; 1970, c. 462, § 24.1-90; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 119; 1972, c. 747; 1993, c. 641; 2000, c. [1045](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1045); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [225](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0225).

