# § 24.2-217 Election and terms of constitutional officers.

The qualified voters of each county shall elect a sheriff, an attorney for the Commonwealth, a treasurer, and a commissioner of the revenue at the general election in November 1995, and every four years thereafter unless a county has adopted an optional form of government which provides that the office be abolished or a county's charter so provides. The qualified voters of each city, unless its charter provides otherwise, shall elect a sheriff, an attorney for the Commonwealth, a treasurer, and a commissioner of the revenue at the general election in November 1997, and every four years thereafter. All shall hold office for a term of four years beginning the January 1 next succeeding their election.

The qualified voters of the several counties shall elect a clerk of the circuit court of the county at the general election in November 1999, and every eight years thereafter. The qualified voters of each city having a circuit court shall elect a clerk of the circuit court at the November 1995, general election and every eight years thereafter. They shall hold office for a term of eight years beginning the January 1 next succeeding their election.

If a county and city share any of the offices to which this section applies, the qualified voters of the city shall cast their votes for that office according to the schedule set forth above for counties.

Code 1950, §§ 24-154, 24-155, 24-161, 24-162, 24-167; 1970, c. 462, §§ 24.1-86, 24.1-87; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 119; 1979, c. 522; 1993, c. 641.

