# § 24.2-619 Sealing ballots.

A member of the electoral board or the general registrar, or some other person designated by the electoral board or the general registrar, shall cause the seal of the board to be affixed in his presence to every ballot printed as provided in this chapter. The seal shall be on the side reverse from that on which the names of the candidates appear. The seal may be affixed on the ballot either mechanically or manually. The member of the board, general registrar, or other person designated shall sign a statement, subject to felony penalties for making false statements pursuant to § [24.2-1016](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-1016/), that the seal of the electoral board was affixed to the ballots in his presence in the manner prescribed by law, setting forth the name of every person taking part in the affixing of the seal, and stating that he has faithfully performed his duties. His statement shall be filed with the minutes of the board. For his services in causing the seal to be affixed to the ballots, the person designated, other than a board member or general registrar, shall receive at least $20 per day.

Any person designated to affix the seal to the ballots shall return the seal to the secretary as soon as the affixing of the seal to the ballots is completed.

Every person taking part in affixing the seal to the ballots or in placing the ballots in packages shall give his statement, subject to felony penalties for making false statements pursuant to § [24.2-1016](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-1016/), that he has faithfully performed his duties and that he will not divulge to anyone the contents of the ballots or any part thereof. These statements shall be filed with the minutes of the board.

Code 1950, §§ 24-225, 24-228, 24-229; 1950, p. 165; 1970, c. 462, §§ 24.1-117, 24.1-118; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 119; 1980, c. 639; 1993, c. 641; 2016, cc. [18](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0018), [492](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0492).

