# § 24.2-957.1 Requirements for television advertisements sponsored by a candidate or candidate campaign committee.

It shall be unlawful for any candidate or a candidate campaign committee to sponsor a television advertisement that constitutes an expenditure or contribution required to be disclosed under Chapter 9.3 (§ [24.2-945](/vacode/24.2-945/) et seq.) unless the following requirements are met:

1. It bears the legend or includes the statement: "Paid for by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ [Name of candidate or campaign committee as it appears on the statement of organization]." Alternatively, if the advertisement is supporting that candidate and the advertisement makes no reference to any other clearly identified candidate, then the statement "Paid for by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ [Name of sponsor]" may be replaced by the statement "Authorized by \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ [Name of sponsor]."

The disclosure shall be made by visual legend, which shall constitute 20 scan lines in size. The content of these visual legends is specified by the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 315 and 317 and this section.

2. If the advertisement sponsored by the candidate or the candidate campaign committee makes reference to another clearly identified candidate, it must include a disclosure statement spoken by the sponsoring candidate containing at least the following words: "I am \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (or 'This is \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_') [Name of candidate], candidate for [Name of] office, and I (or 'my campaign') sponsored this ad."

The candidate or the candidate campaign committee may provide the oral disclosure statement required by this section at the same time as the visual disclosure required under the Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 315 and 317, is shown.

3. The advertisement shall include throughout the disclosure statement an unobscured, full-screen picture containing the candidate, either in photographic form or through the actual appearance of the candidate on camera.

4. The candidate or the campaign committee may place the disclosure statement required by this section at any point during the advertisement, except if the duration of the advertisement is more than five minutes, the disclosure statement shall be made both at the beginning and end of the advertisement.

5. In its oral disclosure statement, the sponsor may choose to identify an advertisement as either supporting or opposing the nomination or election of one or more clearly identified candidates.

6. If an advertisement is jointly sponsored, the disclosure statement shall include the names of all the sponsors and the candidate shall be the disclosing individual. If more than one candidate is the sponsor, at least one of the candidates shall be the disclosing individual.

2002, c. [487](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0487), § 24.2-944; 2004, cc. [55](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0055), [457](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0457); 2005, c. [369](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0369); 2006, cc. [787](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0787), [892](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0892); 2020, c. [615](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0615).

