# ยง 28.2-647 Declaring certain areas near the mouth of the Poquoson River, in York County, public oyster rocks, beds and shoals.

The following ground near the mouth of the Poquoson River in York County, contained within the following boundaries is declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use.

Tract No. 1. Beginning at low-water mark on the extreme east side of Goodwin Islands at a point known as Tues Point; thence following the low-water mark on the eastern side of Goodwin Islands in a general southerly direction to the extreme southern point of said Goodwin Islands; thence in a southerly direction to corner No. 7 of the 27.72 acre oyster lease of C. E., W. T. and J. T. Crockett, H. H. Hansford and S. E. Wescott; thence in a general easterly direction to corner No. 6 of said oyster lease; thence in a southerly direction to corner No. 5 of said oyster lease; thence in a general westerly direction to corner No. 4 of said oyster lease; thence due south to the low-water mark on the east side of Crab Neck; thence following the low-water mark on the east side of said Crab Neck in a general southerly direction to the extreme tip of said Crab Neck, known as York Point; thence in a general south-southwesterly direction to corner No. 3 of Public Ground No. 9, York County; thence in a southeasterly direction along the northeast side of said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a general southerly direction on the east side of said Public Ground to corner No. 1 of said Public Ground; thence in a general southeasterly direction to Public Ground corner No. 3 of Public Ground No. 8, York County; thence in a northeasterly direction following the west side of Public Ground No. 8 to Public Ground corner No. 2; thence in an easterly direction along the northern side of Public Ground No. 8 to Public Ground corner No. 1; thence in a southwest direction along the east side of Public Ground No. 8 to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a due east course to the low-water mark on the east side of the mouth of Bennett's Creek; thence following the low-water mark in a general easterly direction to Marsh Point, said point is located at the extreme southeast side of the mouth of the Poquoson River; thence in a general northwesterly direction on a line toward Tues Point to a point on the southeast side of Public Ground No. 7, York County; thence in a southwest direction along the southeast side of Public Ground No. 7 to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a northwesterly direction along the southwest side of said Public Ground No. 7 to Public Ground corner No. 1; thence in a northeasterly direction along the northwest side of said Public Ground No. 7 to a point; thence following the south line of the oyster ground of C. E. Crockett and A. P. Thomas, said lease containing 12.70 acres, in a general westerly direction to corner No. 3 of said oyster lease; thence following the west side of said oyster lease in a general northerly direction to corner No. 2 of said lease; thence in a northeasterly direction along the northwest side of said oyster lease to a point, said point being located on a line from Tues Marsh to Marsh Point; thence in a northwesterly direction to the low-water mark to Tues Point, or the point of beginning.

Tract No. 2. Beginning at the low-water mark on the extreme east side of Plumtree Point, said point located on the north side of the mouth of Back River, said point is the eastmost point on said side of river; thence in a general north-northwesterly direction toward corner No. 3 of Public Ground No. 7, York County, to a point on the south side of M. F. Quinn's 90.40 acre oyster ground lease; thence in a westerly direction along the south line of M. F. Quinn's oyster lease to a point, said point being located on the southeast side of York County, Public Ground No. 7; thence in a southwesterly direction along the southeast side of Public Ground No. 7, York County, to a point, said point is located along a line from Tues Point to Marsh Point; thence in a general southeasterly direction along the heretofore described line to the low-water mark on Marsh Point, said Marsh Point being the extreme east point of the south side of the mouth of Poquoson River; thence in a general southeasterly direction along the low-water mark to the point of beginning.

Code 1950, ยง 28-204.5; 1958, c. 175; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-157; 1992, c. 836.

