# § 28.2-106.2 Establishment, patrol, and enforcement of state water safety zones and restricted areas; penalty.

A. The Commission is authorized, following consultation with the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to establish, by regulation, state water safety zones and restricted areas within the tidal waters of the Commonwealth wherein public access shall be restricted or prohibited in the interest of public safety. Such zones or areas shall be consistent with federal law and made effective immediately upon establishment by the Commission. When, in the judgment of the Commissioner, time is of the essence and circumstances require action before a meeting of the Commission may be convened, the Commissioner is authorized, following consultation with the U.S. Coast Guard and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to establish state water safety zones or restricted areas, subject to ratification by the Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) and §§ [28.2-209](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-209/) through [28.2-215](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-215/) shall not apply to regulations promulgated under this section. The Commission shall publicize the establishment and location of state water safety zones and restricted areas.

B. The Virginia Marine Police shall patrol and enforce all state water safety zones and restricted areas.

C. In times of officially declared national or state emergency, the Governor may adjust the boundaries of state water safety zones or restricted areas by executive order. Upon termination of emergency status, the boundaries shall return to those set forth in regulations.

D. A violation of any regulation promulgated under this section is a Class 1 misdemeanor.

2003, c. [389](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0389).

