# ยง 28.2-1206 Fees; exemptions.

A. A non-refundable processing fee of $100 shall accompany each application (i) submitted for a Commission permit for the use of state-owned submerged lands or (ii) submitted pursuant to ยง [28.2-1203](/vacode/28.2-1203/). No such processing fee shall be required for an application to explore or recover underwater historic property or to conduct any activity authorized by a Virginia Marine Resources Commission General Permit.

B. The fee paid to the Commission for issuing each permit to recover underwater historic property shall be $25.

The fee paid to the Commission for issuing each permit to use state-owned bottomlands shall be $100; if the cost of the project is to exceed $10,000 but not exceed $500,000, the fee paid shall be $300; and if the cost of the project is to exceed $500,000, the fee paid shall be $600. Riparian owners of (i) commercial facilities engaged in the business of ship construction or repair, (ii) commercial facilities providing services relating to the shipping of domestic or foreign cargo, and (iii) commercial facilities engaged in the business of selling or servicing watercraft shall be exempt from the payment of rents and royalties, except as provided in subsection C.

C. When the activity or project for which a permit is requested will involve the removal of bottom material, the application shall indicate this fact. If granted, the permit shall specify a royalty of not less than $0.40, nor more than $0.80, per cubic yard of bottom material removed. In fixing the amount of the royalty, the Commission shall consider, among other factors, the following:

1. The primary and secondary purposes for removing the bottom material;

2. Whether the material has any commercial value and whether it will be used for any commercial purpose;

3. The use to be made of the removed material and any public benefit or adverse effect upon the public that will result from the removal or disposal of the material;

4. The physical characteristics of the material to be removed; and

5. The expense of removing and disposing of the material.

D. Where it appears that the project or facility for which a permit application is made has been completed or work thereon commenced at the time application is made, the Commission may impose additional assessments not to exceed an amount of three times the normal permit fee and royalties, unless such royalties are prohibited by this chapter.

E. Bottom material removed attendant to maintenance dredging or directional drilling shall be exempt from any royalty. The Virginia Department of Transportation shall be exempt from all fees, rents and royalties otherwise assessable under this section. All counties, cities, and towns of the Commonwealth shall pay the required permit fee but shall be exempt from all other fees, rents and royalties assessable under this section if the permit is issued prior to the commencement of any work to be accomplished under the permit.

F. All fees, rents and royalties collected pursuant to this chapter on and after July 1, 2000, shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Marine Habitat and Waterways Improvement Fund.

G. Beginning July 1, 2020, and not more frequently than every three years thereafter, the Commission may increase or decrease fees for marine habitat applications, permits, leases, rents, and royalties that are authorized by this chapter, but such increase or decrease shall be no greater than the respective increase or decrease, expressed as a percentage, in the United States Average Consumer Price Index for all items, all urban consumers (CPI-U), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor, since the date on which the fee was last set or adjusted.

Code 1950, ยง 62-2.1; 1960, c. 600; 1962, c. 637; 1966, c. 641; 1968, c. 659, ยง 62.1-3; 1970, c. 621; 1972, c. 866; 1973, cc. 23, 361; 1974, cc. 92, 385; 1975, c. 431; 1976, c. 579; 1980, c. 253; 1982, c. 102; 1988, c. 868; 1992, c. 836; 2000, c. [1056](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1056); 2004, cc. [899](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0899), [1018](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1018); 2020, c. [806](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0806).

