# ยง 28.2-646 Declaring certain areas in Piankatank River near Stove Point, Middlesex County, public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals.

The following area, in the Piankatank River around and near Stove Point, Middlesex County, is declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use:

Beginning at survey station "R" on extreme southern tip of Stove Point as a point of reference; thence in a southerly direction to the low-water mark on the southern tip of Stove Point; thence in a northerly direction following the low-water mark on the west side of Stove Point to a point due west of survey station "Billy"; thence in a due west course to Public Ground No. 3, Middlesex County; thence in a southerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 6 of said Public Ground; thence in a southerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 5; thence in an easterly direction to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a southeasterly direction to Public Ground corner No. 3; thence in a southeasterly direction to a point, said point being on Public Ground No. 5, of Mathews County; thence in a northeasterly direction, following Public Ground No. 5, Mathews County, to a point; thence in a northwesterly direction to Public Ground corner No. 14 of Public Ground No. 2, Middlesex County; thence in a north-northwesterly direction to Public Ground corner No. 13 of said Public Ground; thence in a westerly direction to corner No. 4 of J. T. Ward's 57.48-acre lease; thence in a northerly direction following the west side of said J. T. Ward's lease to corner No. 5 of the hereinabove mentioned lease; thence in a due west course to the low-water mark on the eastern side of Stove Point; thence following in a southerly direction the low-water mark of the east side of Stove Point to the point of beginning.

However, nothing in this section shall affect any oyster ground assignments that are now in effect or prohibit assignment of a portion of such area to riparian owners under Article 1 (ยง [28.2-600](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-600/) et seq.) of this chapter.

Code 1950, ยง 28-204.4; 1956, c. 142; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-156; 1992, c. 836.

