# ยง 28.2-108 Marine Patrols Fund continued.

A. The Marine Patrols Fund is continued and hereinafter referred to as the Fund, which shall consist of moneys appropriated to it by the General Assembly. The Comptroller shall annually distribute moneys from the Fund for the following purposes:

1. To cover the Commission's costs for its operation of a marine police dispatch service.

2. To reimburse each county or city in Tidewater Virginia or any county abutting Smith Mountain Lake for its operation of a marine patrol or for providing marine patrol services in waters under the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth. The amount to be paid to each county or city shall be as specifically provided for in the General Appropriations Act. The Comptroller, upon certification by the Commissioner, shall make such payments no later than February 1. The total amount provided to any county or city shall not exceed twenty dollars per motorboat registered in the locality on January 1 of that year, as determined by the records of the Board of Wildlife Resources.

B. If total distributions allowable under subsection A of this section exceed the amount of revenues appropriated to the Fund, each qualifying county or city shall receive a prorated share.

C. The Commissioner may obtain from any county or city seeking funds under this section any information he needs to determine the amount of funds to which such county or city may be entitled.

D. For the purposes of this section, the terms "marine patrol" and "marine patrol services" mean water-borne law-enforcement, safety, and rescue activities.

1979, c. 670, ยง 28.1-46.4; 1982, c. 127; 1986, c. 153; 1990, c. 168; 1992, c. 836; 2002, c. [789](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0789); 2020, c. [958](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0958).

