# ยง 28.2-645 Declaring certain areas in Pocomoke Sound, Accomack County, public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals.

The following area in Pocomoke Sound, Accomack County, contained within the following boundaries is declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use:

Beginning at a point on the low-water mark on the north end of Saxis Island, said point being due south from the low-water mark and marked by a concrete marker designated as survey point "B" on a map of Pocomoke Sound; thence from the true point of beginning at low water following in a southwesterly direction the low-water mark on the northwest side of Saxis Island to a point, said point being the northeast side of Starling Creek; thence southwesterly across the mouth of Starling Creek to a point; thence following the low-water mark in a southwesterly direction to a point on the northeast side of the mouth of Fishing Creek; thence in a generally westerly direction across the mouth of Fishing Creek to a point; thence following the low-water mark around Drum Bay to a point due north of a concrete survey marker named "Drum"; thence due north to Public Ground No. 11; thence easterly to Public Ground corner No. 13; thence southeasterly to Public Ground corner No. 14; thence easterly to Public Ground corner No. 15; thence southeasterly to Public Ground corner No. 16; thence easterly to Public Ground corner No. 17; thence northeasterly to Public Ground corner No. 18; thence northwesterly to Public Ground corner No. 19; thence northeasterly to Public Ground corner No. 1; thence in a northerly direction to Public Ground corner No. 14 of Public Ground No. 9; thence northerly to Public Ground corner No. 15; thence northeasterly to Public Ground corner No. 16; thence northeasterly toward Public Ground corner No. 17 to a point due north to the true point of beginning; thence due south to the point of beginning.

However, nothing in this section shall prohibit the assignment of a portion of such area to riparian owners under Article 1 (ยง [28.2-600](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-600/) et seq.) of this chapter.

Code 1950, ยง 28-204.3; 1956, c. 135; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-155; 1992, c. 836.

