# ยง 28.2-602 Riparian assignments; special terms and conditions.

The provisions of this article apply to all Virginia counties and cities bordering on bodies of water in oyster-growing areas, except they shall not apply to riparian lands located above the James River bridge in the James River or its tributaries. In any Virginia county or city where more than one-half acre of ground per waterfront tract has been assigned to a riparian owner, the ground in excess of one-half acre shall be ground held under a regular lease and assignment, and not a riparian assignment.

For Northampton County, however, ยง 6 of Chapter 254 of the 1883-1884 Acts of Assembly, not this article, shall govern the quantity of land to be assigned to and held by riparian owners. Nothing in this article authorizes a rental of a lesser amount per acre than that provided by law for riparian owners in Northampton County of the land assigned them as such riparian owners. Nothing in the section which restores to riparian owners in Northampton County one-fourth of their waterfronts suitable for planting oysters, permits the owners of waterfronts to compel occupants of the fronts to remove their oysters from any fourth of the shores, if the residue of the shore is already in the landowner's possession or is unoccupied.

Riparian landowners may erect wharves, landings, or other structures as otherwise permitted by law.

Code 1950, ยง 28-123; 1950, p. 987; 1956, c. 586; 1958, c. 184; 1960, c. 517; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-108; 1964, c. 393; 1968, c. 747; 1972, c. 644; 1976, c. 256; 1978, c. 548; 1984, cc. 100, 244, 259; 1986, c. 168; 1992, c. 836.

