# ยง 29.1-305.01 Special license to hunt elk; authority of Board to create elk license and quota hunts.

A. The Board may create a separate special license to hunt elk within the designated elk management zone, as designated in the 2019-2028 Virginia Elk Management Plan, which shall be in addition to the license required to hunt other game. Any person, whether licensed or exempt from being licensed, shall possess (i) a valid state resident hunting license or state nonresident hunting license pursuant to ยง [29.1-303](/vacode/29.1-303/) and (ii) a special elk license in order to pursue elk within the designated elk management zone. A separate special license to hunt elk shall not be required to hunt elk outside of the designated elk management zone.

B. Upon creation of a special license to hunt elk, the Board may establish quotas and procedures for selection to purchase a special elk license. Application for selection for a special elk license may require a nonrefundable application fee of $15 for residents and $20 for nonresidents. The fee for a special elk license shall be no more than $40 for residents and $400 for nonresidents.

C. The Board may establish guidelines permitting the transfer of special elk licenses to individuals, cooperators who assist in meeting agency hunting objectives, or wildlife conservation organizations whose mission is to ensure the conservation of Virginia's wildlife resources.

2020, cc. [309](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0309), [310](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0310).

