# ยง 29.1-217 Special conservation police officers receiving no compensation from Commonwealth.

A. On request of any employer owning more than 500 acres in this Commonwealth, the Director may appoint as special conservation police officers persons employed by the owner. No such special conservation police officer shall receive any compensation from the Commonwealth for his services as such. Any such special conservation police officer shall give the bond required by ยง [29.1-201](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-201/) prior to serving. The powers and authority of such special conservation police officer shall not extend beyond the lands of his employer. The Director may require any special conservation police officer to perform duties on such lands as are required for the enforcement of this chapter.

B. On request of two or more adjoining landowners who own 1,000 or more contiguous acres in this Commonwealth, the Director may appoint as special conservation police officers persons employed by one or more of the landowners. No such special conservation police officer shall receive any compensation from the Commonwealth for his services as such. Any such special conservation police officer shall give the bond required by ยง [29.1-201](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-201/) prior to serving. The powers and authority of such special conservation police officer shall not extend beyond the lands of the adjoining landowners requesting the appointment of the special conservation police officer. The Director may require any special conservation police officer to perform duties on such lands as are required for the enforcement of this chapter.

C. The Commonwealth and the Department shall not be liable in any manner for the acts or omissions of special conservation police officers appointed pursuant to this section occurring during the performance of their duties as special conservation police officers.

D. Each request for appointment of a special conservation police officer shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $100 to defray the cost of processing the request.

1954, c. 700, ยง 29-37.1; 1987, c. 488; 1994, c. [411](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0411); 1997, c. [185](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0185); 2007, c. [87](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0087).

