# ยง 29.1-733.12 Action required on creation of certificate of title.

A. On creation of a written certificate of title, the Department promptly shall send the certificate to the secured party of record or, if none, to the owner of record at the address indicated for that person in the files of the Department. On creation of an electronic certificate of title, the Department promptly shall send a record evidencing the certificate to the owner of record and, if there is one, to the secured party of record at the address indicated for that person in the files of the Department. The Department shall send the record to the person's mailing address or, if indicated in the files of the Department, an electronic address.

B. If the Department creates a written certificate of title, any electronic certificate of title for the watercraft is canceled and replaced by the written certificate. The Department shall maintain in the files of the Department the date and time of cancellation.

C. Before the Department creates an electronic certificate of title, any written certificate for the watercraft shall be surrendered to the Department. If the Department creates an electronic certificate, the Department shall destroy or otherwise cancel the written certificate for the watercraft that has been surrendered to the Department and maintain in the files of the Department the date and time of destruction or other cancellation. If a written certificate being canceled is not destroyed, the Department shall indicate on the face of the certificate that it has been canceled.

2013, c. [787](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0787).

