# § 29.1-311 Trip fishing license for residents and nonresidents; trout stocked waters.

A. Residents and nonresidents of the Commonwealth may obtain trip fishing licenses to fish in the freshwater creeks, bays, inlets, and streams of the Commonwealth, or in any of the impounded waters of the Commonwealth during the open season for game fish. These licenses shall be in lieu of the regular season state or county fishing license required under subsection A of § [29.1-310](/vacode/29.1-310/). The duration for which trip fishing licenses shall be valid shall be established by the Board. The fee for the trip fishing license shall be established by the Board and may be revised pursuant to § [29.1-103](/vacode/29.1-103/).

B. Residents and nonresidents of the Commonwealth may obtain a special combined sportfishing trip license to fish in all inland waters and tidal waters of the Commonwealth during the open season. This license shall be in lieu of the trip fishing license specified in subsection A and the saltwater recreational license required by § [28.2-302.1](/vacode/28.2-302.1/). The cost of the license shall be $10 for residents and $15 for nonresidents. The license shall be valid for five successive days as specified on the face of the license. Of the funds collected under this subsection, (i) $5 per license sold shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Virginia Saltwater Recreational Fishing Development Fund as established in § [28.2-302.3](/vacode/28.2-302.3/) and (ii) $5 per resident license sold and $10 per nonresident license sold shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Game Protection Fund as established in § [29.1-101](/vacode/29.1-101/).

C. Residents and nonresidents shall be entitled to fish in designated waters stocked with trout by the Department or other public body only if they possess (i) a regular season state or county fishing license or a trip fishing license valid for at least five days and (ii) a trout license pursuant to § [29.1-310](/vacode/29.1-310/) or a special lifetime trout fishing license pursuant to § [29.1-302.4](/vacode/29.1-302.4/).

D. The Board may subsequently revise the cost of licenses set forth in this section pursuant to § [29.1-103](/vacode/29.1-103/).

1954, c. 567, § 29-55.1; 1956, c. 51; 1958, c. 443; 1974, c. 363; 1987, c. 488; 1988, c. 250; 1991, c. 242; 2002, c. [67](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0067); 2004, c. [486](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0486); 2009, c. [9](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0009); 2013, c. [351](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0351); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [280](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0280).

