# ยง 3.2-2312 Collection and disposition of assessment by handler; reports.

A. Every handler shall deduct from payments made to the producer for soybeans an assessment of two cents ($0.02) per bushel and shall remit such assessment to the Tax Commissioner pursuant to this chapter. The handler shall also deduct from payments made to the producer for soybeans any national assessment that shall be approved under federal law to supersede the state law and shall remit such assessment to the Tax Commissioner pursuant to this chapter. The Tax Commissioner shall provide to the Soybean Board copies of excise tax returns and other information as may be necessary for the Soybean Board to comply with Virginia and federal soybean assessment programs.

B. A report to the Tax Commissioner shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the Tax Commissioner, and shall be a statement of the gross volume of soybeans handled by the handler and shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner by the date or dates as set forth by the Tax Commissioner covering soybeans handled during the preceding period, as set forth by the Tax Commissioner. The Tax Commissioner shall set forth the filing date or dates for reports and assessments and the period or periods to be covered after consultation with the Virginia Soybean Association and Soybean Board. The assessment levied on soybeans shall be due by the handler on the same day as the report is due. The assessment shall be paid to the Tax Commissioner and be promptly paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Virginia Soybean Fund.

C. Any assessment that is not paid when due shall be collected pursuant to ยง [3.2-1102](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-1102/).

1970, c. 431, ยง 3.1-684.14; 1982, c. 603; 1987, c. 476; 1990, c. 183; 1992, c. 124; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

