# ยง 3.2-4747 Refusal or revocation of license.

A. The Commissioner may refuse to grant a license, delay the issuance of a license, or revoke or suspend any license already granted when he finds that the dealer:

1. Has not satisfied a money judgment entered against him;

2. Has failed to promptly and properly account or to promptly and properly pay for agricultural produce;

3. Has made a false or misleading statement as to market conditions or the service rendered;

4. Has perpetrated a fraud or engaged in deceit in procuring the license;

5. Has engaged in any fraudulent or deceitful practices in his dealings with producers; or

6. Has failed to comply with any provisions of this article or any regulations adopted by the Board.

B. For the purposes of this section the terms:

"Promptly and properly account," except when otherwise specifically agreed upon in writing by the parties, means providing a complete and true accounting: (i) in connection with buying brokerage transactions, within 24 hours after the date of delivery of the agricultural produce to their first destination; (ii) in connection with consignment or joint account transactions, within 10 days after the date of final sale of each shipment. However, if a grower's agent, while conducting a grower's agent transaction, or a shipper distributes individual lots of produce for or on behalf of others, his accounting shall be made within five days after the date he is paid by the purchaser or receives the accounting on consigned or joint account transactions. If a grower's agent, while conducting a grower's agent transaction, or shipper harvests, packs, or distributes entire crops or multiple lots therefrom for or on behalf of others, he shall make accountings within seven days following shipment by the dealer; and (iii) in connection with a consignment or joint account transaction, within 10 days after the date of receipt of payment of a carrier claim filed. Nothing in this section shall prohibit cooperative associations from accounting to their members on the basis of seasonal pools or other arrangements provided by their regulations or bylaws.

"Promptly and properly pay" means payment within 30 days of the receipt of the produce by the dealer, unless a written agreement signed by both parties expressly provides or permits otherwise. In the case of joint transactions, if the produce sells at or for less than the agreed price, the dealer pays the agreed price to the grower. If the produce sells for more than the agreed price, the dealer shall pay to the grower one-half of the difference between the sale price and the agreed price.

1968, c. 598, ยง 3.1-722.10; 1972, c. 646; 1980, c. 277; 1994, c. [340](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0340); 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

