# ยง 3.2-4009 Lawn and turf seed mixture; registration and labeling.

A. Any person packing or distributing lawn and turf seed mixture bearing a distinguishing name or trademark in prepackaged containers of 100 pounds or less shall register the mixture annually with the Commissioner and provide the following information:

1. The brand name of the lawn and turf seed mixture;

2. A statement of the specifications of the lawn and turf seed mixture indicating within five percent the percentage by weight of each kind of lawn and turf seed in the mixture;

3. A complete copy of all labeling that is to appear on the container;

4. An example of the analysis statement that is to appear on each container of a mixture; and

5. The name and address of the registrant and the name and address of the person whose name will appear on the label.

B. Every registration shall expire on December 31. If the holder files a renewal application on or before December 31, his registration shall remain valid through January 31 or until issuance of the renewal registration, whichever event first occurs.

C. The Commissioner may permit a change in the labeling or specifications of a lawn or turf seed mixture within a registration period without requiring new registration of the product provided that the name of the lawn and turf seed mixture and the specifications for the primary ingredients of the mixture are not changed.

D. The registrant shall pay to the Commissioner an annual registration fee of $50 for each named lawn and turf seed mixture in prepacked containers of 100 pounds or less prior to its distribution.

E. The Commissioner shall register the lawn and turf seed mixture if he finds that the components of the lawn and turf seed mixture are such as to warrant the proposed labeling and other claims for it and if the labeling and other submitted material comply with the requirements of this article.

F. If the Commissioner finds that the lawn and turf seed mixture does not warrant the proposed claims made for it or if the mixture and its labeling do not comply with the provisions of this article, he shall notify the registrant of the manner of noncompliance to afford the registrant an opportunity to make the necessary corrections.

G. If the Commissioner identifies any unregistered lawn and turf seed mixture during the registration year, he shall notify the guarantor and grant a grace period of 15 working days from issuance of notification for the guarantor to register the lawn and turf seed mixture and pay the registration fee without penalty. Any person required to register a lawn and turf seed mixture who fails to register within the 15 working day grace period shall pay to the Commissioner a $50 late fee in addition to the registration fee. The Commissioner may issue a stop sale, use, removal, or seizure order upon the lawn and turf seed mixture until its registration is complete.

Code 1950, ยง 3-219.14; 1966, c. 9, ยง 3.1-275.1; 1994, c. [577](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0577); 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

