# ยง 3.2-4803 Licensing of manufacturers and guarantors of commercial feed.

A. Any person who manufactures a commercial feed or any guarantor shall, before: (i) distributing, selling, offering or exposing for sale in the Commonwealth any commercial feed; or (ii) supplying commercial feed to a contract feeder, obtain a license from the Commissioner. The person who manufactures or is the guarantor of such commercial feed shall submit a license application to the Commissioner on a form furnished or approved by the Commissioner, and pay to the Commissioner a license fee of $50. Any person with multiple manufacturing facilities shall obtain a license and pay a license fee to the Commissioner for each manufacturing facility that distributes commercial feed in Virginia. The license year shall be January 1 through December 31. Each license shall expire on December 31 of the year for which it is issued. Any license shall be valid through January 31 of the next ensuing year or until the issuance of the renewal license, whichever event occurs first, if the holder of the license has filed a renewal application with the Commissioner on or before December 31 of the year for which the current license was issued. Any new applicant who fails to obtain a license within 15 working days of notification of the requirement to obtain a license, or any licensee who fails to comply with license renewal requirements, shall pay a $50 late fee to the Commissioner in addition to the license fee. The Commissioner may issue a stop sale, use, removal, or seizure order on any commercial feed that the nonlicensee produces or distributes in the Commonwealth until such license is issued.

B. The Commissioner shall not issue a license to any person not in compliance with any provision of this chapter, and shall revoke the license of any person subsequently found not to be in compliance with any provision of this chapter.

1994, c. [743](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0743), ยง 3.1-828.6; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

