# ยง 3.2-5145.5 Regulations.

A. The Board is authorized to adopt regulations for the efficient enforcement of this article.

B. The Board shall adopt regulations identifying contaminants of an industrial hemp extract or a food containing an industrial hemp extract and establishing tolerances for such identified contaminants.

C. The Board shall adopt regulations establishing labeling requirements for an industrial hemp extract or a food containing an industrial hemp extract.

D. The Board shall adopt regulations establishing batch testing requirements for industrial hemp extracts. The Board shall require that batch testing of industrial hemp extracts be conducted by an independent testing laboratory that meets criteria established by the Board.

E. With the exception of ยง [2.2-4031](/vacode/2.2-4031/), neither the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) nor public participation guidelines adopted pursuant thereto shall apply to the adoption of any regulation pursuant to this section. Prior to adopting any regulation pursuant to this section, the Board shall publish a notice of opportunity to comment in the Virginia Register of Regulations and post the action on the Virginia Regulatory Town Hall. Such notice of opportunity to comment shall contain (i) a summary of the proposed regulation; (ii) the text of the proposed regulation; and (iii) the name, address, and telephone number of the agency contact person responsible for receiving public comments. Such notice shall be made at least 60 days in advance of the last date prescribed in such notice for submittals of public comment. The legislative review provisions of subsections A and B of ยง [2.2-4014](/vacode/2.2-4014/) shall apply to the promulgation or final adoption process for regulations pursuant to this section. The Board shall consider and keep on file all public comments received for any regulation adopted pursuant to this section.

2020, cc. [659](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0659), [660](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0660).

