# § 3.2-1001 Powers and duties of Commissioner.

For the purpose of effectively administering this chapter, the Commissioner may:

1. Establish programs as are deemed necessary for the management of threatened or endangered species.

2. Accept funds for a special account or other gifts or grants from any source for use in the furtherance of this chapter. Funds collected for services on articles determined by the Commissioner to be beyond the scope of this chapter shall revert to the fund from which expended.

3. Enter into reciprocal agreements with responsible officers of other states under which any part of this chapter would benefit.

4. Issue a permit authorizing the removal, taking, or destruction of threatened or endangered species on the state list upon good cause shown and where necessary to alleviate damage to property, the impact on progressive development, or protect human health, provided that such action does not violate federal laws or regulations.

5. Stop sale, seize, or return to point of origin at the owner's expense, any threatened or endangered species or part thereof if the Commissioner determines the owner has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or the regulations adopted hereunder. Any threatened or endangered species or part thereof seized may be disposed of at the discretion of the Commissioner.

6. Seek, in those situations where permission to enter property is denied by the owner or occupant, an administrative inspection warrant signed by any judge of any circuit court whose territorial jurisdiction encompasses the property to be inspected, authorizing the Commissioner to make inspections or develop other biological data for the proper management of any threatened or endangered species. The issuance of an administrative inspection warrant pursuant hereto shall conform, insofar as is practicable, to the requirements and guidelines set forth in Chapter 24 (§ [19.2-393](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/19.2-393/) et seq.) of Title 19.2 relating to the issuance of inspection warrants in connection with the manufacturing or emitting of a toxic substance.

1979, c. 372, §§ 3.1-1022, 3.1-1024; 1985, c. 326; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

