# § 3.2-107 Testing samples of products delivered to laboratories; prescribing and collecting fees; Laboratory Fee Fund established; disposition of moneys.

A. The Commissioner may have tested samples of manufactured, processed, or natural products delivered to laboratories operated by the Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services or the Department and prescribe and collect reasonable fees for the services rendered.

B. All fees and moneys collected or received by the Commissioner or the Department in its official capacity for the testing of samples of manufactured, processed, or natural products shall be paid into the Laboratory Fee Fund.

C. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Laboratory Fee Fund, hereinafter referred to as the Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of the costs of the testing provided for in this section. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Commissioner.

Code 1950, §§ 3-13.1, 3-13.2; 1964, c. 163; 1966, c. 702, §§ 3.1-15, 3.1-16; 1972, c. 741; 1978, cc. 219, 702; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

