# ยง 3.2-6400 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Agricultural products" means any livestock, aquaculture, poultry, horticultural, floricultural, viticulture, silvicultural, or other farm crops.

"Agritourism activity" means any activity carried out on a farm or ranch that allows members of the general public, for recreational, entertainment, or educational purposes, to view or enjoy rural activities, including farming, wineries, ranching, horseback riding, historical, cultural, harvest-your-own activities, or natural activities and attractions. An activity is an agritourism activity whether or not the participant paid to participate in the activity.

"Agritourism professional" means any person who is engaged in the business of providing one or more agritourism activities, whether or not for compensation.

"Farm or ranch" means one or more areas of land used for the production, cultivation, growing, harvesting or processing of agricultural products.

"Inherent risks of agritourism activity" mean those dangers or conditions that are an integral part of an agritourism activity including certain hazards, including surface and subsurface conditions; natural conditions of land, vegetation, and waters; the behavior of wild or domestic animals; and ordinary dangers of structures or equipment ordinarily used in farming and ranching operations. Inherent risks of agritourism activity also include the potential of a participant to act in a negligent manner that may contribute to injury to the participant or others, including failing to follow instructions given by the agritourism professional or failing to exercise reasonable caution while engaging in the agritourism activity.

"Participant" means any person, other than an agritourism professional, who engages in an agritourism activity.

2006, c. [710](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0710), ยง 3.1-796.137; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860); 2020, c. [411](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0411).

