# § 3.2-2311 Virginia Soybean Fund established.

There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Soybean Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All moneys levied and collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes set forth in this chapter.

In carrying out the purposes of this chapter, the Soybean Board may cooperate with other state, regional, national, and international agricultural organizations in research, education, publicity, and the promotion of the sale and use of soybeans. The Soybean Board may sell printed materials, rent exhibit space at meetings, and engage in any type of ethical revenue-producing activity to defray the costs of Soybean Board programs. The proceeds from such activities shall be promptly paid into the Virginia Soybean Fund.

Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the Soybean Board on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the duly authorized officer of the Soybean Board.

The Auditor of Public Accounts shall audit all the accounts of the Soybean Board as is provided for in § [30-133](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-133/).

1970, c. 431, §§ 3.1-684.17, 3.1-684.18; 1978, c. 540; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

