# ยง 3.2-4753 Definitions.

As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Cash buyer" means any person who pays the producer, or his representative, at the time of obtaining title, possession or control of grain, the agreed price of such grain in coin or currency, certified checks, cashier's checks, or drafts issued by a bank.

"Contract" means a binding agreement between the grain dealer and the producer that describes the terms and conditions of the delivery of grain and the purchase price.

"Deferred payment" means that the purchase price for grain delivered by the producer is fixed and specified in the contract, but payment is not received by the producer until a mutually agreed upon subsequent date.

"Full market value" means the value recognized as the average weekly price per bushel for the Commonwealth as quoted by the Department.

"Grain" means grains including corn (maize), wheat, rye, oats, barley, flaxseed, soybeans, and sunflower.

"Grain bank" means grain owned by a producer and held temporarily by the dealer for use in the formulation of feed and returned to the producer on demand as feed or whole grain.

"Grain dealer" means any person who buys, solicits for sale or resale, processes for sale or resale, contracts for storage or exchange, or transfers grain of a Virginia producer. The term shall exclude farmers or groups of farmers buying grain for consumption on their farms.

"Grain exchange" means grain owned by a producer and held temporarily by the dealer for use in the formulation of processed flour to be returned to the producer on demand as flour or whole grain.

"Loss" means any monetary loss to a producer as a result of doing business with a dealer that shall include bankruptcy, embezzlement, theft or fraud.

"Price later" means that the actual purchase price is not fixed at the time of delivery, but allows the producer to choose a bid price on any business day during a stated time period as agreed between the parties.

"Producer" means any person in Virginia who produces grain.

"Storage" or "holding" means any method by which grain owned by another is held for the owner by a person who is not the direct owner, except for transportation thereof.

1972, c. 296, ยง 3.1-722.16; 1982, c. 187; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

