# ยง 3.2-6024 Definitions.

As used in this article unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Composting" means the natural process in which beneficial microbes reduce dead poultry into a biologically safe by-product.

"Dead poultry" means poultry, exclusive of those intentionally slaughtered, that die as a result of disease, injury, or of natural causes, upon any premises in the Commonwealth.

"Disposal" means to put dead poultry into a landfill or the complete destruction of dead poultry in an incinerator or a disposal pit, or by rendering or composting.

"Disposal pit" means an opening dug in the ground to a minimum depth of six feet, containing a minimum capacity of 150 cubic feet, covered with a minimum of 12 inches of dirt, and provided with one or more openings for the introduction of poultry therein. Openings shall be of a minimum size of eight inches square and equipped with tight lids.

"Incinerator" means a device designed for treatment of waste by combustion.

"Landfill" means an area permitted by the Department of Environmental Quality allowing the disposal of dead poultry.

"Person" means any person who engages in the raising or keeping of poultry for profit in the Commonwealth.

"Poultry" means all chickens, ducks, turkeys, or other domestic fowls being raised or kept on any premises in the Commonwealth for profit.

"Premises" means the entire tract of land including the buildings thereon, owned, leased, or used by any person for the raising or keeping of poultry for profit.

"Raising or keeping of poultry for profit" means the raising or keeping of 500 or more poultry at one time for the purpose of sale of such poultry or the eggs produced therefrom.

"Rendering" means treating dead poultry according to the process described in 9 C.F.R. ยง 82.1.

1992, c. 101, ยง 3.1-742.1; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

