# ยง 3.2-3702 Registration; permitting of distributors.

A. Any distributor of agricultural liming material in the Commonwealth shall register each brand by July 1 for the registration year July 1 through June 30, before distributing any agricultural liming material in the Commonwealth. Each distributor shall submit an application for registration to the Commissioner on forms furnished or approved by the Commissioner and shall pay to the Commissioner a registration fee of $50 per brand of agricultural liming material per registration year. Upon approval by the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall furnish a copy of the registration to the applicant. Each registration shall expire on June 30 of the registration year for which the Commissioner issued the registration. Any registration shall be valid through July 31 of the next registration year or until issuance of the renewal registration, whichever occurs first, if the holder of the registration has filed a renewal application with the Commissioner on or before June 30 of the registration year for which the Commissioner issued the registration.

B. Any distributor of any brand of industrial co-product used to neutralize soil acid in the Commonwealth shall register each brand by July 1 of each year for the registration year of July 1 to June 30, before distributing any industrial co-product used to neutralize soil acid in the Commonwealth. Each distributor shall submit an application for registration to the Commissioner on forms furnished or approved by the Commissioner and shall pay to the Commissioner a registration fee of $100 per brand of industrial co-product used to neutralize soil acid per registration year. The Commissioner shall furnish a copy of the registration to the applicant. Each registration shall expire on June 30 of the registration year for which the Commissioner issued the registration. Every such registration shall be valid through July 31 of the next registration year or until issuance of the renewal registration, whichever occurs first, if the holder of the registration has filed a renewal application with the Commissioner on or before June 30 of the registration year for which the Commissioner issued the registration.

Any distributor making application to register any brand of industrial co-product used to neutralize soil acid shall submit to the Commissioner test data indicating the product's neutralizing value, and its safety to plants and animals.

C. If the Commissioner identifies any unregistered liming material in commerce in the Commonwealth during the registration year, the Commissioner shall grant a grace period of 15 working days from issuance of notification to the distributor of the liming material to register the liming material without penalty. Any distributor who fails to register each brand of liming material being distributed by him in the Commonwealth by the 15th day of the grace period, shall pay to the Commissioner a $50 late fee per brand of liming material in addition to the registration fee, as well as cause a stop sale, use, removal or seizure order to be issued upon said liming material until its registration is complete.

D. A distributor shall not be required to register any brand of liming material or liming material with added potash, if it has been duly registered under this chapter by another person, provided the label on the liming material the other person registered does not differ in any respect from the label on the liming material the distributor seeks to register.

1974, c. 647, ยง 3.1-126.4; 1994, c. [649](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0649); 2002, c. [473](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0473); 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

