# ยง 3.2-3107 Payments from the Fund; transfer and recovery of payments; limitation on claims.

A. No payments made, or otherwise payable, to tobacco farmers under this chapter shall be transferable or assignable, at law or in equity, except by testate or intestate succession, or by a property settlement agreement, separation agreement, or judicial decree in a separation or divorce proceeding. Except in actions initiated by or on behalf of the Commission, no payments made, or otherwise payable, to tobacco farmers under this chapter shall be subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process until such money has been paid or distributed. The Commonwealth, and any department, agency, or institution thereof, the Commission, and their agents and employees, shall not be a party or otherwise subject to such execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process.

B. Grants, loans, or other distributions paid or payable from the Fund to promote economic growth and development shall not be subject to execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process, except in actions initiated by or on behalf of the Commission. Such grants, loans, or other distributions shall only be transferable or assignable in accordance with terms established by the Commission.

C. Any payment from the Fund that is later determined to have been made wrongly or erroneously may be recovered by the Commission either by way of a credit or offset against any future payments otherwise distributable to the recipient or by judicial action. Prior to making any such determination, the Commission shall give the recipient reasonable prior written notice and an opportunity to be heard in accordance with rules established by the Commission.

D. In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any person requesting or applying for a payment from the Fund who knowingly makes any false, fictitious, or fraudulent statements or representations or otherwise knowingly provides any false, fictitious, or fraudulent information to the Commission shall forfeit his opportunity or eligibility to receive any payments from the Fund.

E. Any eligible person who fails, for any reason whatsoever, to apply for any indemnification payment determined to be distributable by the Commission by the deadline established by the Commission or its Executive Director for the receipt of applications or verification forms shall be forever barred from receiving such payment unless the person makes appropriate written application to the Commission that is received within one year of the established deadline. At the end of such one-year period, no action shall lie against the Fund or the Commission for such payments to the person from the Fund.

F. All payments made or eligible to be made under this chapter shall be deemed to be granted and to be held subject to the provisions of this chapter and any amending or repealing act that may hereafter be passed, and no person shall have any claim for compensation, or otherwise, by reason of his payments or payment eligibility being affected in any way by any amending or repealing act.

2001, c. [757](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0757), ยง 9-385.1; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844), ยง 3.1-1111.1; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

