# ยง 3.2-3701 Authority of Board and Commissioner to adopt regulations.

A. The Board may adopt such regulations as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. Such regulations may include to investigational allowances, definitions, records, manufacturing practices and the distribution and storage of liming material.

B. The Commissioner may adopt, as a regulation:

1. The Official Fertilizer Terms and Definitions adopted by the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials;

2. The methods of sampling and analysis for liming material adopted by the Association of Official Analytical Chemists; and

3. Any method of sampling and analysis for liming material developed by the Department or adopted by agencies of the federal government, agencies of other states, the Division of Consolidated Laboratory Services, or other commercial laboratories accredited by the Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Department of Agriculture or Association of Official Analytical Chemists.

C. Such regulations adopted by the Commissioner shall be effective upon filing with the Registrar of Regulations, who shall publish the regulation as a final regulation in the Virginia Register of Regulations. The regulation shall contain a preamble stating that the Board will receive, consider, and respond to petitions by any interested person at any time with respect to reconsideration or revision of such regulation.

D. The Board, after giving notice in the Virginia Register of Regulations, may reconsider and revise the regulation adopted by the Commissioner. Such revised regulation shall be effective upon filing with the Registrar of Regulations, who shall publish the regulation as a final regulation in the Virginia Register of Regulations.

E. Neither the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) nor public participation guidelines adopted pursuant thereto shall apply to the adoption, reconsideration or revision of any regulation adopted pursuant to subsections B, C, and D.

1994, c. [649](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0649), ยง 3.1-126.12:1; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

