# ยง 3.2-2212 Collection and disposition of assessment by handler; reports.

A. Every handler shall deduct from payments made to the producer for small grains the amount of the assessment levied thereon and shall remit such assessment to the Tax Commissioner pursuant to this chapter.

B. A report to the Tax Commissioner shall be on forms prescribed and furnished by the Tax Commissioner; shall be a statement of the gross volume of small grains handled by the handler; and shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner covering small grains handled during the preceding period, as set forth by the Tax Commissioner. The Tax Commissioner shall set forth the filing date or dates for reports and assessments and the period to be covered after consultation with the Virginia Small Grains Association and the Small Grains Board. The assessment levied on small grains shall be due and payable by the handler on the same day as the report is due. The assessment shall be paid to the Tax Commissioner and be promptly paid into the state treasury to the credit of the Virginia Small Grains Fund. The Tax Commissioner shall not assess a fee in the collection of the fee assessment. The Tax Commissioner shall provide annually during the first calendar quarter of each year a listing of all handlers who paid an assessment during the previous calendar year.

C. Any assessment that is not paid when due shall be collected pursuant to ยง [3.2-1102](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-1102/).

1991, c. 587, ยง 3.1-684.53; 1992, c. 776; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

