# ยง 3.2-4208 Agent for service of process.

A. Any nonresident or foreign nonparticipating manufacturer that has not registered to do business in the Commonwealth as a foreign corporation or business entity shall, as a condition precedent to having its brand families listed or retained in the Directory, appoint and continually engage without interruption the services of an agent in the Commonwealth to act as agent for the service of process on whom all process, and any action or proceeding against it concerning or arising out of the enforcement of this article or Article 1 (ยง [3.2-4200](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-4200/) et seq.) of this chapter may be served in any manner authorized by law. Such service shall constitute legal and valid service of process on the nonparticipating manufacturer. The nonparticipating manufacturer shall provide the name, address, phone number and proof of the appointment and availability of such agent to the satisfaction of the Commissioner and Attorney General. Any nonparticipating manufacturer located outside of the United States shall, as an additional condition precedent to having its brand families listed or retained in the Directory, cause each of its importers into the United States of any of its brand families to be sold in Virginia to appoint and continually engage without interruption the services of an agent in the Commonwealth in accordance with the provisions of this section. All obligations of a nonparticipating manufacturer imposed by this section with respect to appointment of its agent shall likewise apply to such importers with respect to appointment of their agents.

B. The nonparticipating manufacturer shall provide notice to the Commissioner and Attorney General 30 calendar days prior to termination of the authority of an agent and shall further provide proof to the satisfaction of the Attorney General of the appointment of a new agent no less than five calendar days prior to the termination of an existing agency appointment. In the event an agent terminates an agency appointment, the nonparticipating manufacturer shall notify the Commissioner and Attorney General of said termination within five calendar days and shall include proof to the satisfaction of the Attorney General of the appointment of a new agent.

C. Any nonparticipating manufacturer whose products are sold in this state, without appointing or designating an agent as herein required, shall be deemed to have appointed the Secretary of the Commonwealth as such agent and may be proceeded against in courts of the Commonwealth by service of process upon the Secretary of the Commonwealth. The appointment of the Secretary of the Commonwealth as such agent shall not satisfy the condition precedent to having its brand families listed or retained in the Directory.

2003, c. [798](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0798), ยง 3.1-336.7; 2008, cc. [758](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0758), [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

