# ยง 3.2-1700 Horse Industry Board; composition and appointment of members; quorum.

The Horse Industry Board, established by the passage of a referendum held pursuant to Chapters 790 and 805 of the Acts of Assembly of 1993, is continued within the Department. The Horse Industry Board shall consist of 12 members representing the horse industry, industry support services, education, and equine health. Four members shall be the presidents of the following industry organizations: the Virginia Horse Council, Inc., the Virginia Thoroughbred Association, the Virginia Horse Shows Association, and the Virginia Quarter Horse Association. Four members shall serve at large, to be appointed by the Governor from nominations made by the remaining statewide horse breed or use organizations. The Governor shall also appoint two members from recommendations submitted by the Virginia horse industry: one shall be a representative of the horse industry support services or professional community (feed manufacturing or sales, pharmaceutical sales, horseshoeing, marketing, veterinary services, etc.) and the other shall be an individual commercially involved in the horse industry (manager, trainer, etc.). Each organization shall submit nominations or recommendations for each available position. If the organizations fail to provide the nominations, the Governor may appoint other nominees that meet the foregoing criteria.

An extension equine specialist from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University shall serve as a voting member of the Horse Industry Board. The Commissioner shall serve as a nonvoting member.

Seven members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

The presidents of the Virginia Horse Council, Inc., the Virginia Thoroughbred Association, the Virginia Horse Shows Association, and the Virginia Quarter Horse Association may each designate in writing a member of his organization as an alternate who may attend meetings in his place and be counted as a member of the Horse Industry Board for the purposes of a quorum and for voting.

2005, cc. [497](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0497), [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0588), ยง 3.1-22.54; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860); 2011, cc. [691](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691), [714](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714); 2016, c. [565](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0565).

