# § 3.2-4739 License required; application for license and license fee; license renewals; list of dealers.

A. Every dealer shall obtain a license to operate and conduct business.

B. Such persons shall on or before May 1 of each year file a written application for a license with the Commissioner for the licensing year of May 1 to April 30. Each dealer shall pay a license fee of $50 per licensing year. Each license shall expire on April 30 of the licensing year for which the license was issued. The license shall be valid through May 31 of the next licensing year or until issuance of the renewal license, whichever occurs first, if the holder shall have filed a renewal application and a new bond or a continuation certificate continuing his current bond with the Commissioner on or before April 30 of the licensing year for which the Commissioner issued the license Any dealer proposing to transact business within the Commonwealth who fails to file such written application for a license and pay the licensing fee on or before May 1 shall pay a $50 late fee in addition to the license fee. Any person who engages in business as a dealer before obtaining a license shall be subject to a $250 penalty, in addition to the license fee and the late fee.

C. The application for a license shall be on a form furnished or approved by the Commissioner and shall contain the following information along with such other information as the Commissioner shall require on the form:

1. The name and address of the applicant and that of its local agent, if any, and the location of its principal place of business within the Commonwealth;

2. The kinds of agricultural produce the applicant proposes to handle; and

3. The type of produce business proposed to be conducted.

D. Each licensee shall renew his licenses on or before May 1 of each year for the licensing year May 1 to April 30. The licensee shall make application to the Commissioner on a form furnished or approved by the Commissioner and the licensee is subject to the provisions of subsection B.

E. The Commissioner may publish a list of dealers licensed under this article.

1968, c. 598, §§ 3.1-722.2, 3.1-722.3; 1994, c. [340](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0340), § 3.1-722.6:1; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

