# ยง 3.2-6102 Registration of brand required; transfer of brand.

Any cattle owner who uses a brand to identify his cattle must register his brand by applying to the Department for such registration. The application shall be made on forms prescribed and furnished by the Department, which application shall be accompanied by a fee of $10 and a facsimile of the brand to be registered shall also be furnished by the applicant. All fees collected hereunder for registration, transfer, and reregistration of brands shall be deposited in a special fund of the state treasury for the administration of this chapter. If the brand described in the application, or one similar, or closely resembling a registered brand has not been previously registered by another cattle owner, the Department shall approve the application, register the brand in the name of the applicant and issue to the applicant a certificate of registration. In the event the Department denies registration of a brand for any reason the registration fee of $10 shall be returned to the person making application for registration. When a cattle owner, who has registered a brand with the Department, transfers such brand to another, he shall immediately notify the Department of the transfer, giving the date of transfer, and the name of the transferee. Upon receipt of the notice and a transfer fee of $3, the Department shall note such transfer in the register of brands, and such brand shall not be used by the new owner until permission has been given by the Department.

1974, c. 642, ยง 3.1-796.30; 1975, c. 283; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

