# ยง 3.2-3616 Assessments for variance from label guarantees.

A. The guarantor shall pay to the consumer all assessments for misbranding, adulteration or plant food deficiency on the lot of regulated product represented by the sample analyzed. The guarantor shall make payment to the consumer within 60 days after the date of notice from the Commissioner to the guarantor. The guarantor shall obtain a receipt documenting the payment of such assessment, which shall be forwarded to the Commissioner within the 60-day period during which payment to the consumer is made.

B. If the guarantor cannot locate the consumer within 60 days; the amount of the assessment shall be paid to the Commissioner, who shall deposit it in the state treasury, and report to the State Comptroller, who shall credit the amount to a special fund for the sale of substandard fertilizer. The Commissioner shall pay to the consumer of a lot of regulated product on which the assessment was made an amount equal to the assessment from the Sale of Substandard Fertilizer Fund if the consumer can be located in 90 days. The State Comptroller shall transfer any balance remaining in the fund for a period of 90 days to the Feed, Lime, Fertilizer, and Animal Remedies Fund as specified by ยง [3.2-3617](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/3.2-3617/). Any person required to pay an assessment who fails to pay the assessment within the time specified shall pay to the Commissioner a late fee of 10 percent of the assessment, or $50, whichever is greater, in addition to the assessment. The Commissioner may cancel the license of such person who fails to pay the assessment.

1994, c. [740](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0740), ยง 3.1-106.14; 2008, c. [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860).

