# ยง 30-14 Clerk to be Keeper of the Rolls; other duties.

The Clerk of the House of Delegates shall be the Keeper of Rolls of the Commonwealth. He shall enroll all of the acts of the General Assembly and joint resolutions proposing amendments to the Constitution by such other permanent and substantial method or methods as he may deem proper; and shall have the enrolled acts bound for publication after they have been signed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates and the President of the Senate.

The Clerk of the House of Delegates shall have the custody of the acts and joint resolutions of the General Assembly, and the records of the House of Delegates; and, when required, shall furnish a copy of any or any part of any of them, or of any section or sections of the Code in the form published pursuant to ยง [30-148](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-148/); which copy, being certified by him shall be evidence for any purpose for which the original would be received, and with as much effect. If an act or part of an act of the General Assembly has been codified and assigned a section number as a part of the Code of Virginia, by the Virginia Code Commission pursuant to ยง [30-148](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-148/), he may also certify that fact.

He shall, as soon as practicable after every act is passed, prepare the acts for publication with a notation of the day upon which every act was approved by the Governor or became law without his approval. He shall furnish to the Director of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems the manuscript of all acts of the General Assembly and joint resolutions proposing amendments to the Constitution and joint resolutions providing for studies for legislation, or a copy thereof, properly arranged for publication. As soon as practicable after the adjournment of the General Assembly, he shall furnish the index and the tables required by law and the date of adjournment of the session, and shall superintend the publication of such acts, joint resolutions, resolutions, date of adjournment, tables and index, in connection with the Director of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems.

Code 1919, ยง 307; 1940, p. 472; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 84; 1970, c. 170; 1994, c. [623](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0623); 2005, c. [839](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0839).

