# § 30-188 Virginia Coal and Energy Commission; membership; terms; compensation and expenses; staff; quorum; voting on recommendations.

A. The Virginia Coal and Energy Commission (the Commission) is established in the legislative branch of state government. The Commission shall consist of 20 members to be appointed as follows: five members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; eight members of the House of Delegates to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates; and seven nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor. The nonlegislative citizen members shall be citizens of the Commonwealth and shall include representatives of industry, government and groups or organizations identified with production and conservation of coal, natural gas, and energy.

B. Legislative members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Members appointed by the Governor shall serve for terms of four years. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term. Any member may be reappointed for successive terms.

C. The members of the Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman annually from among its membership.

D. Legislative members of the Commission shall receive such compensation as provided in § [30-19.12](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-19.12/) and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive such compensation as provided in § [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/) for their services. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/). Funding for compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided from existing appropriations to the Commission.

E. Administrative staff support shall be provided by the Office of the Clerk of the Senate or the Office of the Clerk of the House of Delegates as may be appropriate for the house in which the chairman of the Commission serves. The Division of Legislative Services shall provide legal, research, policy analysis and other services as requested by the Commission. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall assist the Commission upon request.

F. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever a majority of the members so request.

G. No recommendation of the Commission shall be adopted if a majority of the Senate members or a majority of the House members appointed to the Commission (i) vote against the recommendation and (ii) vote for the recommendation to fail notwithstanding the majority vote of the Commission.

1979, c. 330, §§ 9-145.2, 9-145.3; 1996, c. [535](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0535); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2004, c. [1000](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000).

