# ยง 30-168.1 Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman and vice-chairman; quorum; meetings.

The Commission shall consist of 18 legislative members. Members shall be appointed as follows: eight members of the Senate, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules; and 10 members of the House of Delegates, of whom three shall be members of the House Committee on Health, Welfare and Institutions, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates in accordance with the principles of proportional representation contained in the Rules of the House of Delegates.

Members of the Commission shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Members may be reappointed. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.

The Commission shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

No recommendation of the Commission shall be adopted if a majority of the Senate members or a majority of the House members appointed to the Commission (i) vote against the recommendation and (ii) vote for the recommendation to fail notwithstanding the majority vote of the Commission.

2003, c. [633](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0633); 2005, c. [758](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0758).

