# § 30-189  Powers and duties of Commission.

A. The Commission shall generally study all aspects of coal as an energy resource and endeavor to stimulate, encourage, promote, and assist in the development of renewable and alternative energy resources other than petroleum. The Commission shall have no authority to adopt regulations. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall assist the Commission in its work. In addition to the aforementioned general powers, the Commission shall also perform the following functions:

1. Act in an advisory capacity to the Governor and executive branch agencies upon energy related matters;

2. Investigate and consider such questions and problems relating to the field of coal and energy utilization and alternative energy sources as may be submitted;

3. Make recommendations to the Governor and General Assembly on its own initiative;

4. Consult with applicable state agencies on all matters regarding energy conservation, including the promotion and implementation of initiatives for the public-at-large to conserve energy;

5. Endeavor to encourage research designed to further new and more extensive use of the coal as well as alternative and renewable energy resources of the Commonwealth;

6. Effectively disseminate any such proposals to groups and organizations, both state and local, so as to stimulate local governing bodies and private business initiative in the field of energy related matters;

7. Coordinate its efforts with those of the Virginia Solar Energy Center established pursuant to § [45.2-1900](/vacode/45.2-1900/) and the Virginia Center for Coal and Energy Research established pursuant to Article 3 (§ [23.1-2623](/vacode/23.1-2623/) et seq.) of Chapter 26 of Title 23.1;

8. Actively seek federal and other funds to be used to carry out its functions;

9. Seek to establish alternative fuel capability within the Commonwealth; and

10. Investigate and make recommendations regarding the development of nuclear power. The Commission shall periodically address (i) encouraging the reprocessing of spent fuel for reuse, (ii) incentives to encourage the study of nuclear engineering at public institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth, (iii) the storage of nuclear waste, (iv) the transportation of nuclear waste, (v) security needs of nuclear power plants, and (vi) on-site temporary storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel.

B. The Commission shall report its findings and recommendations to the General Assembly and the Governor on an annual basis. The Chairman of the Commission shall submit to the General Assembly and the Governor an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Commission no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.

1979, c. 330, §§ 9-145.1, 9-145.4; 1980, c. 214; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2002, c. [559](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0559); 2004, c. [1000](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000).

