# ยง 30-19.12 Compensation of members of the General Assembly and certain commissions engaged in legislative services.

A. Subject to the provisions of subsections B through G hereof, members of all legislative committees, legislative commissions, and councils established by the General Assembly and all committees and subcommittees of any of the foregoing shall receive compensation at such rate as provided for in ยง [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/). Any other member of the General Assembly whose attendance, in the opinion of the chairman of such a group, is required at a sitting of such group shall also be entitled to compensation at the same rate.

B. A legislative member shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this section for any services performed on any day that the member's house is in active session. For purposes of this subsection, "active session" means (i) any day during any regular session of the General Assembly or the first extension thereof, (ii) any day that a roll call vote is taken in the member's house during any second or subsequent extension of a regular session that is not a pro forma session, or (iii) any day that a roll call vote is taken in the member's house during any special session of the General Assembly that is not a pro forma session.

C. A legislative member shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this section for legislative services performed on Capitol Square on any day that the member's house has a pro forma session.

D. Full-time employees of the Commonwealth or of any of its political subdivisions shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this section.

E. No person shall receive pursuant to this section a total of more than one day's compensation for services performed on any one day. Whenever a member attends two or more meetings for which compensation is authorized herein in a single day, such one day's compensation shall be prorated from among the activities served.

F. Compensation of members of the General Assembly provided for in this section shall be paid by the offices of the Clerk of the House of Delegates or Clerk of the Senate as appropriate and funds therefor transferred from the appropriate activity.

G. For purposes of this section, "Capitol Square" means the grounds and all buildings in the City of Richmond bounded by Bank, Governor, Broad and Ninth Streets. "Pro forma session" means a session that is announced as a pro forma session by the presiding officer and in which no business is scheduled to be conducted.

Code 1950, ยง 14-29.1; 1964, c. 386, ยง 14.1-18; 1966, c. 703; 1974, c. 356; 1979, c. 316; 1980, c. 718; 1984, c. 161; 1998, cc. [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0790), [872](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0872); 2006, c. [272](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0272).

