# ยง 30-231.3 Amount of scholarships; use of scholarships; disbursement and recovery of scholarship funds; terms and conditions; penalty.

A. Scholarships shall be awarded from gifts, grants, donations, bequests, or other funds made available to the Program. No scholarship awarded under this Program shall exceed the total annual costs of tuition, a book allowance, and fees assessed by the educational agency for the specific program in which the student is enrolled, as determined by the Committee.

B. The full amount of each scholarship awarded to a recipient shall be used solely for the payment of tuition, a book allowance, and fees, or for a one-time only payment of the costs of a preparation program, instructional materials, and high school equivalency examinations approved by the Board of Education or the College-Level Examination Program (CLEP) examinations.

C. Awards granted to applicants accepted for enrollment at accredited career and technical education postsecondary schools shall be made in accordance with Article VIII, section 11 of the Constitution of Virginia.

D. No scholarship under this Program shall be used to obtain multiple baccalaureate, masters, doctoral, or professional degrees.

E. Before any scholarship is awarded, the applicant shall sign an acceptance form under the terms of which the applicant affirms the accuracy of the information he has provided and agrees to pursue the approved education program for which the scholarship is awarded until his graduation or the completion of the program, as appropriate. Following verification of enrollment by the relevant educational agency to the State Council of Higher Education, educational agencies acting as agents for students receiving awards under this chapter shall promptly credit disbursed funds to student accounts. A scholarship award made in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall not be reduced by the educational agency upon receipt of any other financial assistance on behalf of the student. However, the scholarship award may be reduced by the Committee to ensure that, when such award is added to other financial assistance, the award does not produce a total of financial assistance that exceeds the annual total costs of tuition, a book allowance, and fees, pursuant to this section. Beginning on July 1, 2008, every educational agency acting as an agent for students receiving awards under this chapter shall notify the Committee and the State Council of Higher Education upon request concerning the type and total of other financial assistance received by such students. In addition, every educational agency accepting for admission persons awarded a Brown v. Board of Education scholarship shall, upon request, provide the Committee information concerning the accreditation status of the school and academic programs offered, and other relevant information as the Committee may require to evaluate the person's eligibility for the scholarship and to determine the eligibility of the educational agency for participation in the Program. Whenever a student withdraws from an educational agency or otherwise fails, regardless of reason, to complete the program in which he is enrolled, the educational agency shall surrender promptly to the Commonwealth the balance of the scholarship award, in accordance with the tuition refund policy in effect at the time of the student's admission to the educational agency.

F. Any person who uses a false or fictitious name or gives a false or fictitious address in any application for a scholarship or knowingly makes a false statement or conceals a material fact or otherwise commits a fraud in any such application shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.

G. This chapter shall not be construed as creating any legally enforceable right or entitlement on the part of any person or any right or entitlement to participation in the Program. Scholarships shall be awarded to the extent funds are made available to the Program through gifts, grants, donations, bequests, or other funds.

2005, cc. [753](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0753), [834](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0834); 2006, c. [518](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0518); 2008, c. [680](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0680); 2009, c. [444](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0444); 2010, c. [579](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0579); 2014, c. [84](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0084).

