# § 30-279 Public-Private Partnership Advisory Commission established; membership; terms; compensation; staff; quorum.

A. The Public-Private Partnership Advisory Commission (the Commission) is established as an advisory commission in the legislative branch. The purpose of the Commission shall be to advise responsible public entities that are agencies or institutions of the Commonwealth on proposals received pursuant to the Public-Private Education Facilities and Infrastructure Act of 2002 (§ [56-575.1](/vacode/56-575.1/) et seq.).

B. The Commission shall consist of 11 members, including eight legislative members, as follows: (i) the Chair of the House Committee on Appropriations or his designee and four members of the House of Delegates appointed by the Speaker of the House, (ii) the Chair of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations or his designee and two members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, and (iii) three Secretaries as defined in § [2.2-200](/vacode/2.2-200/) to be appointed by the Governor to serve ex officio. Legislative members shall serve on the Commission until the expiration of their terms of office or until their successors shall qualify. Executive branch agency members shall serve only as long as they retain their positions.

C. The members of the Commission shall elect from among the legislative membership a chairman and a vice-chairman who shall serve for two-year terms. The Commission shall hold meetings quarterly or upon the call of the chairman. A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.

D. Members of the Commission shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/), [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/), and [30-19.12](/vacode/30-19.12/), as appropriate.

E. Administrative staff support shall be provided by the Office of the Clerk of the Senate or the Office of the Clerk of the House of Delegates as may be appropriate for the house in which the chairman of the Commission serves. The Division of Legislative Services shall provide legal, research, and policy analysis services to the Commission. Technical assistance shall be provided by the staffs of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations and the Auditor of Public Accounts. Additional assistance as needed shall be provided by the Department of General Services.

F. A copy of the proceedings of the Commission shall be filed with the Division of Legislative Services.

2007, c. [764](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0764); 2008, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0712); 2010, c. [450](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0450); 2020, c. [738](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0738).

