# ยง 30-34.5 Printing and distribution of Acts of Assembly.

A. The Commission shall, within 45 days following the adjournment of the General Assembly sine die, send to each requesting member of the General Assembly a copy of each Act of Assembly signed by the Governor or if otherwise enacted into law, in the form in which it is signed by the Governor or otherwise enacted into law. Each act so sent shall be clearly denominated with the House of Delegates or the Senate bill number assigned to it by the respective houses of the General Assembly.

B. The Commission shall also requisition, through the Division of Legislative Automated Systems, as soon as approved by the Governor, not in excess of 5,000 copies of the acts and joint resolutions of the General Assembly. These it shall have bound in ordinary half binding, with the index and tables required by law to be printed with the acts and joint resolutions of the General Assembly, and as soon as practicable after the close of each session of the General Assembly, shall deliver by mail, express or otherwise, if requested pursuant to ยง [30-34.4:1](/vacode/30-34.4:1/):

1. One copy to the Governor; and such additional copies as may be requested for use in the Governor's office;

2. One copy to each of the Governor's secretaries;

3. One copy to each head of department; each division of the Governor's office, the Commissioner of the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission, the Employment Commission and the Department of Motor Vehicles, the Director of the Department of Wildlife Resources and the Executive Secretary of the Compensation Board and the Director of the Virginia Retirement System;

4. As many copies to the Division of Legislative Services as may be required by the Division for its use or for exchange with other states;

5. One copy to each member of the General Assembly; however, up to four additional copies may be obtained upon application to the Division of Legislative Automated Systems;

6. One copy to the Lieutenant Governor;

7. One copy to each judge;

8. Five copies to the State Corporation Commission;

9. Twenty-five copies to the Attorney General;

10. One copy to the reporter of the Supreme Court, the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court, and each clerk of any court, attorney for the Commonwealth, Commissioner of the Revenue, Treasurer, public library, school board, judge and clerk of any court held in this Commonwealth under the laws of the United States and each attorney and marshal in this Commonwealth holding office under the United States;

11. One copy to the city manager of a city, the mayor of a town and the county administrator, manager or executive depending on the county's form of government; however, an additional copy for use within the city, town or county may be obtained upon application to the Division of Legislative Automated Systems;

12. Five copies to The Library of Virginia;

13. Five copies to the State Law Library;

14. One copy to the head of each institution of higher education in the Commonwealth;

15. One copy to the library of each institution of higher education in the Commonwealth;

16. One copy to the Virginia School for the Deaf and the Blind;

17. Five copies to the Clerk of the Senate for the use of the Senate;

18. Ten copies to the Clerk of the House of Delegates for the use of the House;

19. Three copies to the Auditor of Public Accounts;

20. Three additional copies to the Comptroller;

21. One copy to the county attorney in those counties which have created the office of the county attorney;

22. One copy to the Joint Legislative Audit and Review Commission;

23. One copy to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Delegates;

24. One copy to the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations; and

25. One copy to the Division of Legislative Automated Systems.

1980, c. 687; 1983, c. 108; 1987, c. 128; 1992, c. 857; 1994, c. [64](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0064); 2020, c. [958](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0958).

