# ยง 30-338 Powers and duties of the Joint Subcommittee; staffing; reports.

The Joint Subcommittee shall have the following powers and duties:

1. Undertake a systematic review of Virginia's tax preferences;

2. Adopt a schedule for reviewing tax preferences based upon program areas to which the preferences relate;

3. Establish procedures and performance measures to evaluate the effectiveness of tax preferences;

4. Request that the Governor direct Department of Taxation staff conduct independent evaluations of tax preferences in promoting economic activity, generating revenue, or otherwise achieving their intended policy purpose and report the findings to the Joint Subcommittee;

5. Recommend a process and guidelines for establishing expiration dates for tax preferences; and

6. Submit an annual report to the General Assembly and the Governor of its recommendations, including which tax preferences should be continued, expanded, modified, or eliminated.

The Joint Subcommittee is authorized to establish a technical advisory group to assist the work of the Joint Subcommittee and Department of Taxation staff by providing additional guidance and reviewing evaluations conducted by the Department. The technical advisory group shall include individuals with tax policy or economic expertise and legislative staff.

Administrative staff support shall be provided by the Office of the Clerk of the House of Delegates. Legal, research, policy analysis, and other services requested by the Joint Subcommittee shall be provided by the Division of Legislative Services. Technical assistance shall be provided by the staffs of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations.

The chairman shall submit to the General Assembly and the Governor an annual executive summary of the interim activity and work of the Joint Subcommittee no later than the first day of each regular session of the General Assembly. The executive summary shall be submitted as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports and shall be posted on the General Assembly's website.

2012, c. [777](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0777).

