# ยง 30-337 Membership; terms; vacancies; chairman and vice-chairman; quorum; meetings; compensation.

The Joint Subcommittee shall have a total membership of 14 legislative members that shall consist of eight members of the House of Delegates and six members of the Senate. Members shall be appointed as follows: eight members of the House of Delegates, of which six shall be members of the House Committee on Finance and two shall be members of the House Committee on Appropriations to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates, upon the recommendation of the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Chairman of the House Committee on Finance, respectively; and six members of the Senate to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, upon the recommendation of the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations.

Members shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Members may be reappointed. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.

The Joint Subcommittee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership.

A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Joint Subcommittee shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

No recommendation of the Joint Subcommittee shall be adopted if a majority of the House members or a majority of the Senate members appointed to the Joint Subcommittee (i) vote against the recommendation and (ii) vote for the recommendation to fail notwithstanding the majority vote of the Joint Subcommittee.

Members of the Joint Subcommittee shall receive such compensation and shall be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses as provided in the general appropriation act.

2012, c. [777](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0777).

