# ยง 30-391 Virginia Redistricting Commission.

A. The Virginia Redistricting Commission is established in the legislative branch of state government. It shall be convened in the year 2020 and every 10 years thereafter for the purpose of establishing districts for the United States House of Representatives and for the Senate and the House of Delegates of the General Assembly.

B. As used in this chapter:

"Census data" means the population data received from the United States Bureau of the Census pursuant to P.L. 94-171.

"Commission" means the Virginia Redistricting Commission established pursuant to this chapter.

"Committee" means the Redistricting Commission Selection Committee established pursuant to ยง 30-393.

"Partisan public office" means (i) an elective or appointive office in the executive or legislative branch or in an independent establishment of the federal government; (ii) an elective office in the executive or legislative branch of the government of the Commonwealth, or an office that is filled by appointment and is exempt from the Virginia Personnel Act (ยง [2.2-2900](/vacode/2.2-2900/) et seq.); or (iii) an office of a county, city, or other political subdivision of the Commonwealth that is filled by an election process involving nomination and election of candidates on a partisan basis.

"Political party office" means an elective office in the national or state organization of a political party, as defined in ยง [24.2-101](/vacode/24.2-101/).

2020, Sp. Sess. I, c. [56](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0056).

