# ยง 30-71 Hearing criteria.

At each hearing which may be held pursuant to ยง [30-70](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/30-70/), the standing committee conducting such hearing and the agencies testifying shall respond to, but not be limited to consideration of, the following questions:

1. What are the problems, needs, or missions that the program is intended to address and what has been accomplished?

2. What is the effect of the program on the economy including but not limited to: competition, unemployment, economic stability, attraction of new business, productivity, and price inflation to consumers?

3. Would the absence of any regulatory activity significantly harm or endanger the public health, safety, or welfare?

4. Has the program or agency carried out its mission in an efficient, economic, and effective manner?

5. What services could be provided and what level of performance could be achieved if the program were funded at a level less than the existing level?

6. What other state programs have similar, duplicate, or conflicting objectives?

7. What federal activities have similar, duplicate, or conflicting objectives?

8. How does the agency ensure that it responds promptly and effectively to complaints concerning persons affected by the agency?

9. To what extent have the agency's operations been impeded by existing statutes, procedures, or practices of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or of other state agencies?

10. What action plans have been or are being proposed to improve agency operations where the need for improvements has been identified in previous executive or legislative oversight studies and reports?

1978, c. 388; 1986, c. 302.

