# ยง 32.1-324.1 Authority to administer oaths, conduct hearings; obtaining relevant documents and other information.

A. The Director of the Department of Medical Assistance Services or his designee is authorized in the exercise and performance of official functions, duties, and powers under the provisions of this title to hold and conduct hearings, to administer oaths, and to take testimony under oath. The Director is authorized to make an ex parte application to the Circuit Court for the City of Richmond for the issuance of a subpoena, in furtherance of any investigation within the jurisdiction of the Department, to request the attendance of witnesses and the production of any relevant records, memoranda, papers, and other documents. The Court is authorized to issue and compel compliance with such subpoena upon a showing of good cause. The Court, upon determining that good cause exists to believe that evidence may be destroyed or altered, may issue a subpoena requiring the production of evidence forthwith.

B. In accordance with federal and state law, the Director or his designee shall conduct hearings on determinations of eligibility or continued eligibility of applicants or recipients for services under the state plan for medical assistance. In addition to the authority conferred upon the Director by subsection A of this section, the Director or his designee, in connection with any such proceedings, may issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and the production of records, memoranda, papers, and other documents.

C. Failure or refusal to comply with a subpoena issued pursuant to subsection B of this section shall be punishable as a Class 4 misdemeanor.

1986, c. 440; 1990, c. 383.

