# ยง 32.1-111.4:2 Regional emergency medical services councils.

The Board shall designate regional emergency medical services councils that shall be authorized to receive and disburse public funds. Each such council shall be charged with the development and implementation of an efficient and effective regional emergency medical services delivery system.

The Board shall review those agencies that were the designated regional emergency medical services councils. The Board shall, in accordance with the standards established in its regulations, review and may renew or deny applications for such designations every three years. In its discretion, the Board may establish conditions for renewal of such designations or may solicit applications for designation as a regional emergency medical services council.

Each regional emergency medical services council shall include, if available, representatives of the participating local governments, fire protection agencies, law-enforcement agencies, emergency medical services agencies, hospitals, licensed practicing physicians, emergency care nurses, mental health professionals, emergency medical services personnel, and other appropriate allied health professionals.

Each regional emergency medical services council shall adopt and revise as necessary a regional emergency medical services plan in cooperation with the Board.

The designated regional emergency services councils shall be required to match state funds with local funds obtained from private or public sources in the proportion specified in the regulations of the Board. Moneys received directly or indirectly from the Commonwealth shall not be used as matching funds. A local governing body may choose to appropriate funds for the purpose of providing matching grant funds for any designated regional emergency medical services council. However, this section shall not be construed to place any obligation on any local governing body to appropriate funds to any such council.

The Board shall promulgate, in cooperation with the Advisory Board, regulations to implement this section, which shall include, but not be limited to, requirements to ensure accountability for public funds, criteria for matching funds, and performance standards.

2015, cc. [502](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502), [503](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503).

