# ยง 32.1-11.6 Virginia Pregnant Women Support Fund; purpose; guidelines.

A. There is hereby created the Virginia Pregnant Women Support Fund (the Fund) as a special nonreverting fund to be administered by the Board of Health to support women and families who are facing unplanned pregnancy.

B. The Board of Health shall have authority to solicit and accept gifts, donations, and bequests and to apply for grants on behalf of the Fund from any source and to deposit all moneys received in the Fund. The Council shall submit to the Governor an annual report of all gifts, donations, grants and bequests accepted; the names of the donors; and the respective amounts contributed by each donor.

C. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All moneys received from any source pursuant to subsection B shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of carrying out the activities enumerated below:

1. Purchasing or upgrading ultrasound equipment;

2. Creating a separate program for domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking screening against pregnant women and new mothers;

3. Conducting a public campaign to increase public awareness;

4. Providing support services for students of institutions of higher education;

5. Providing funds to allow early childhood education programs to work with pregnant or parenting teens to complete high school and provide job training education; or

6. Providing for teenage or first-time mothers education on the health needs of their infants through free home visits by registered nurses.

D. The Board of Health shall establish an application process and related procedures for community health centers, migrant health centers, homeless health centers, and public-housing centers seeking grants from the Fund. A grant may be made only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Board of Health and the application is in such a form, is made in such a manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Board determines to be necessary to carry out its functions.

2007, cc. [780](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0780), [822](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0822).

