# ยง 32.1-111.15 Statewide poison control system established.

From such funds as may be appropriated for this purpose and from such gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds as may be received, the Board shall establish a statewide poison control system. The funding mechanism for the system and its services shall be as provided in the appropriation act.

The Board shall establish poison control centers that meet national certification standards promulgated by the American Association of Poison Control Centers. If such national certification standards are eliminated, the Board shall establish minimum standards for the designation and operation of these poison control centers. The poison control centers established by the Board shall report to the Board by October 1 of each year regarding program operations; expenditures; revenues, including in-kind contributions; financial status; future needs; and summaries of human poison exposure cases for the most recent calendar year.

The statewide system shall provide, at a minimum, (i) consultation, by free, 24-hour emergency telephone or other means of communication, to the public and to health care providers regarding the ingestion or application of substances, including determinations of emergency treatment, coordination of referrals to emergency treatment facilities, and provision of appropriate information to the staffs of such facilities; (ii) prevention education and information about poison control services; (iii) training for health care providers in toxicology and medical management of poison exposure cases; and (iv) poison control surveillance through the collection and analysis of data from reported poison exposures to identify poisoning hazards, prevent poisonings, and improve treatment of poisoned patients.

1996, c. [899](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0899); 2015, cc. [502](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502), [503](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503).

