# ยง 32.1-73.15 Powers and duties of the Council.

The Council shall have the power and duty to:

1. Within the first year, hold public hearings and make inquiries of and solicit comments from the public to assist the Council in understanding the scope of rare diseases in the Commonwealth and the impact of rare diseases on individuals in the Commonwealth.

2. Conduct research and consult with experts to develop policy recommendations related to:

a. Improving access to health care and other services for individuals with rare diseases, including access to health insurance, specialists, health care services, and other necessary services for individuals with rare diseases;

b. The impact of health insurance coverage, cost sharing, tiers, or other utilization management procedures on access to health care and other necessary services; and

c. The impact of providing coverage under the state program for medical assistance services for approved health care services and medications for rare diseases.

3. Publish a list of existing publicly accessible resources on research, diagnosis, treatment, and education relating to rare diseases on the Council's webpage.

4. Submit annually by October 1 a report to the Governor and the General Assembly for publication as a report document as provided in the procedures of the Division of Legislative Automated Systems for the processing of legislative documents and reports. The annual report shall (i) describe the activities and recommendations of the Council and (ii) describe the status of funding available to the Council, including information regarding any grants applied for and received by the Council.

5. Apply for, accept, and expend gifts, grants, and donations from public or private sources to enable the Council to better carry out its objectives.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [303](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0303).

