# ยง 32.1-249 Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

"Dead body" means a human body or such parts of such human body from the condition of which it reasonably may be concluded that death occurred.

"Fetal death" means death prior to the complete expulsion or extraction from its mother of a product of human conception, regardless of the duration of pregnancy; death is indicated by the fact that after such expulsion or extraction the fetus does not breathe or show any other evidence of life such as beating of the heart, pulsation of the umbilical cord, or definite movement of voluntary muscles.

a. "Induced termination of pregnancy" means the intentional interruption of pregnancy with the intention to produce other than a live-born infant or to remove a dead fetus and which does not result in a live birth.

b. "Spontaneous fetal death" means the expulsion or extraction of a product of human conception resulting in other than a live birth and which is not an induced termination of pregnancy.

"File" means the presentation of a vital record provided for in this chapter for registration by the Department.

"Final disposition" means the burial, interment, cremation, removal from the Commonwealth or other authorized disposition of a dead body or fetus.

"Institution" means any establishment, public or private, which provides inpatient medical, surgical, or diagnostic care or treatment, or nursing, custodial or domiciliary care, or to which persons are committed by law.

"Live birth" means the complete or substantial expulsion or extraction from its mother of a product of human conception, irrespective of the duration of pregnancy, which, after such expulsion or extraction, breathes or shows any other evidence of life such as beating of the heart, pulsation of the umbilical cord, or definite movement of voluntary muscles, whether or not the umbilical cord has been cut or the placenta is attached.

"Substantial expulsion or extraction" means, in the case of a headfirst presentation, the infant's entire head is outside the body of the mother or, in the case of a breech delivery, when any part of the infant's trunk past the navel is outside the body of the mother.

"Physician" means a person authorized or licensed to practice medicine or osteopathy in this Commonwealth.

"Registration" means the acceptance by the Department and the incorporation of vital records as provided for in this chapter into its official records.

"System of vital records" means the registration, collection, preservation, amendment, and certification of vital records; the collection of other reports required by this chapter; and related activities.

"Vital records" means certificates or reports of births, deaths, fetal deaths, adoptions, marriages, divorces or annulments and amendment data related thereto.

Code 1950, ยง 32-353.4; 1960, c. 451; 1975, c. 267; 1979, c. 711; 1983, c. 240; 2003, cc. [961](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0961), [963](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0963); 2020, c. [922](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0922).

