# ยง 32.1-137.4 Examination, review or investigation.

A. The Commissioner shall cause each managed care health insurance plan licensee subject to certification under this article to be examined or reviewed for each new application and to be periodically examined or reviewed at reasonable times thereafter, including both for complaint investigation and for renewal compliance. Such examinations or reviews shall consider the compliance of the managed care health insurance plan licensee with the regulations promulgated under ยง [32.1-137.3](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-137.3/).

In lieu of or in addition to making his own examination of the managed care health insurance plan licensee, the Commissioner may accept the report of an examination of the licensee under similar laws of another state, similar regulatory agency, state health commissioner, or accreditation entity.

B. Any examiner authorized by the Commissioner shall, so far as necessary for the purposes of the examination or review, have access during regular business hours to the premises and to any books, records, files, or property of the licensee as far as they directly relate to the quality of care provided by the licensee. All material copied or recorded or received shall be privileged and confidential and shall not be subject to subpoena.

C. Every person from whom information is sought, in an investigation of a complaint pursuant to this article against a managed care health insurance plan licensee, shall cooperate in producing or allowing reasonable access during regular business hours to the books, records, files, accounts, papers, documents, and any or all computer or other recordings of the licensee being examined or those of any person delivering health care services under contract, affiliation, delegation or other arrangement directly relevant to the investigation. Such information shall be limited to that which is relevant to the investigation in question, as specified in regulations promulgated pursuant to this article. All material copied or recorded or received shall be privileged and confidential, and shall not be subject to subpoena.

D. The refusal of any licensee, by its officers, directors, employees or agents, to submit to examination or review or to comply with any reasonable written request of the examiners shall be grounds for suspension, revocation, denial, or nonrenewal of any certificate of quality assurance held by the licensee. Any such proceedings for suspension, revocation, denial or nonrenewal of any certificate shall be conducted pursuant to ยง [32.1-137.5](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-137.5/).

1998, c. [891](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0891).

