# ยง 32.1-111.4:1 State Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board; purpose; membership; duties; reimbursement of expenses; staff support.

A. There is hereby created in the executive branch the State Emergency Medical Services Advisory Board for the purpose of advising the Board concerning the administration of the statewide emergency medical services system and emergency medical services vehicles maintained and operated to provide transportation to persons requiring emergency medical treatment and for reviewing and making recommendations on the Statewide Emergency Medical Services Plan. The Advisory Board shall be composed of 28 members appointed by the Governor as follows: one representative each from the Virginia Municipal League, Virginia Association of Counties, Virginia Hospital and Healthcare Association, and each of the 11 regional emergency medical services councils; one member each from the Medical Society of Virginia, Virginia Chapter of the American College of Emergency Physicians, Virginia Chapter of the American College of Surgeons, Virginia Chapter of the American Academy of Pediatrics, Emergency Nurses Association or the Virginia Nurses' Association, Virginia State Firefighters Association, Virginia Fire Chiefs Association, Virginia Ambulance Association, Virginia Association of Governmental Emergency Medical Services Administrators, and Virginia Association of Public Safety Communications Officials; two representatives of the Virginia Association of Volunteer Rescue Squads, Inc.; one Virginia professional firefighter; and one consumer who shall not be involved in or affiliated with emergency medical services in any capacity. Each organization and group shall submit three nominees from among which the Governor may make appointments. Of the three nominees submitted by each of the regional emergency medical services councils, at least one nominee shall be a representative of providers of prehospital care. Any person appointed to the Advisory Board shall be a member of the organization that he represents. To ensure diversity in the organizations and groups represented on the Advisory Board, the Governor may request additional nominees from the applicable organizations and groups. However, the Governor shall not be bound to make any appointment from among any nominees recommended by such organizations and groups.

The members of the Advisory Board shall not be eligible to receive compensation; however, the Department shall provide funding for the reimbursement of expenses incurred by members of the Advisory Board in the performance of their duties.

B. Appointments shall be staggered as follows: nine members for a term of two years, nine members for a term of three years, and 10 members for a term of four years. Thereafter, appointments shall be for terms of three years, except an appointment to fill a vacancy, which shall be for the unexpired term. Appointments shall be in a manner to preserve insofar as possible the representation of the specified groups. No member shall serve more than two successive terms. No person representing any organization or group named in subsection A who has served as a member of the Advisory Board for two or more successive terms for any period or for six or more consecutive years shall be nominated for appointment or appointed to the Advisory Board unless at least three consecutive years have elapsed since the person has served on the Advisory Board.

The chairman shall be elected from the membership of the Advisory Board for a term of one year and shall be eligible for reelection. The Advisory Board shall meet at least four times annually at the call of the chairman or the Commissioner.

C. The Advisory Board shall:

1. Advise the Board on the administration of this article;

2. Review and make recommendations for the Statewide Emergency Medical Services Plan and any revisions thereto; and

3. Review, on a schedule as it may determine, reports on the status of all aspects of the statewide emergency medical services system, including the Financial Assistance and Review Committee, the Rescue Squad Assistance Fund, the regional emergency medical services councils, and the emergency medical services vehicles, submitted by the Office of Emergency Medical Services.

D. The Advisory Board shall establish an Advisory Board Executive Committee to assist in the work of the Advisory Board. The Advisory Board Executive Committee shall, in addition to those duties of the Advisory Board Executive Committee established by the Advisory Board, review the annual financial report of the Virginia Association of Volunteer Rescue Squads, as required by ยง [32.1-111.13](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-111.13/).

E. The Office of Emergency Medical Services shall provide staff support to the Advisory Board.

2015, cc. [502](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502), [503](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503).

