# ยง 32.1-135 Revocation or suspension of license or certification; restriction or prohibition of new admissions to nursing home.

A. In accordance with applicable regulations of the Board, the Commissioner (i) may restrict or prohibit new admissions to any nursing home or certified nursing facility, or (ii) may petition the court to impose a civil penalty against any nursing home or certified nursing facility or to appoint a receiver for such nursing home or certified nursing facility, or both, or (iii) may revoke the certification or may revoke or suspend the license of a hospital or nursing home or the certification of any certified nursing facility for violation of any provision of this article or Article 2 (ยง [32.1-138](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-138/) et seq.) of this chapter or of any applicable regulation promulgated under this chapter or for permitting, aiding, or abetting the commission of any illegal act in the hospital or nursing home.

All appeals from notice of imposition of administrative sanctions shall be received in writing within fifteen days of the date of receipt of such notice. The provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) shall be applicable to such appeals.

B. If a license or certification is revoked as herein provided, a new license or certification may be issued by the Commissioner after satisfactory evidence is submitted to him that the conditions upon which revocation was based have been corrected and after proper inspection has been made and compliance with all provisions of this article and applicable state and federal law and regulations hereunder has been obtained.

C. Suspension of a license shall in all cases be for an indefinite time. The Commissioner may completely or partially restore a suspended license or certificate when he determines that the conditions upon which suspension was based have been completely or partially corrected and that the interests of the public will not be jeopardized by resumption of operation. No additional service charges shall be required for restoring such license.

Code 1950, ยง 32-307; 1979, c. 711; 1989, c. 618.

