# § 32.1-162.9:1 Employment for compensation of persons convicted of barrier crimes prohibited; criminal records check required; drug testing; suspension or revocation of license.

A. A licensed home care organization as defined in § [32.1-162.7](/vacode/32.1-162.7/) or any home care organization exempt from licensure under subdivision 3 a or b of § [32.1-162.8](/vacode/32.1-162.8/) or any licensed hospice as defined in § [32.1-162.1](/vacode/32.1-162.1/) shall not hire for compensated employment, persons who have been convicted of any offense set forth in clause (i) of the definition of barrier crime in § [19.2-392.02](/vacode/19.2-392.02/).

However, a home care organization or hospice may hire an applicant who has been convicted of one such offense punishable as a misdemeanor that does not involve abuse or neglect if five years have elapsed since the conviction.

Any person desiring to work at a licensed home care organization as defined in § [32.1-162.7](/vacode/32.1-162.7/) or any home care organization exempt from licensure under subdivision 3 a or b of § [32.1-162.8](/vacode/32.1-162.8/) or any licensed hospice as defined in § [32.1-162.1](/vacode/32.1-162.1/) shall provide the hiring facility with a sworn statement or affirmation disclosing any criminal convictions or any pending criminal charges, whether within or outside the Commonwealth. Any person making a materially false statement when providing such sworn statement or affirmation regarding any such offense is guilty upon conviction of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Further dissemination of the information provided pursuant to this section is prohibited other than to a federal or state authority or court as may be required to comply with an express requirement of law for such further dissemination.

Such home care organization or hospice shall, within 30 days of employment, obtain for any compensated employees an original criminal record clearance with respect to convictions for offenses specified in this section or an original criminal history record from the Central Criminal Records Exchange. However, no employee shall be permitted to work in a position that involves direct contact with a patient until an original criminal record clearance or original criminal history record has been received, unless such person works under the direct supervision of another employee for whom a background check has been completed in accordance with the requirements of this section. The provisions of this section shall be enforced by the Commissioner. If an applicant is denied employment because of convictions appearing on his criminal history record, the home care organization or hospice shall provide a copy of the information obtained from the Central Criminal Records Exchange to the applicant.

The provisions of this section shall not apply to volunteers who work with the permission or under the supervision of a person who has received a clearance pursuant to this section.

B. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a licensed home care agency, a home care organization exempt from licensure under subdivision 3 a or b of § [32.1-162.8](/vacode/32.1-162.8/), or any licensed hospice as defined in § [32.1-162.1](/vacode/32.1-162.1/) that provides services to individuals receiving services under the state plan for medical assistance services or any waiver thereto may disclose to the Department of Medical Assistance Services (i) whether a criminal history background check has been performed on an employee of the home care agency in accordance with this section and (ii) whether such person is eligible for employment.

C. A licensed home care organization as defined in § [32.1-162.7](/vacode/32.1-162.7/) or any home care organization exempt from licensure under subdivision 3 a or b of § [32.1-162.8](/vacode/32.1-162.8/) shall establish policies for maintaining a drug-free workplace, which may include drug testing when the employer has cause to believe that the person has engaged in the use of illegal drugs and periodically during the course of employment. All positive results from drug testing administered pursuant to this section shall be reported to the health regulatory boards responsible for licensing, certifying, or registering the person to practice, if any.

D. A person who complies in good faith with the provisions of this section shall not be liable for any civil damages for any act or omission in the performance of duties under this section unless the act or omission was the result of gross negligence or willful misconduct.

E. A licensed home care organization or hospice shall notify and provide all students a copy of the provisions of this section prior to or upon enrollment in a certified nurse aide program operated by such home care organization or hospice.

1992, c. 844; 1993, cc. 17, 657; 1999, c. [637](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0637); 2003, c. [517](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0517); 2006, cc. [701](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0701), [764](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0764); 2010, cc. [415](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0415), [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0790); 2012, c. [383](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0383); 2014, c. [129](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0129); 2017, c. [809](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0809); 2019, c. [89](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0089).

