# ยง 32.1-122.10:002 Board of directors; expenses; officers; terms of office; quorum; annual report.

A. All powers, rights and duties conferred by this article, or other provisions of law, upon an authority shall be exercised by a board of directors. The participating localities in the local health partnership authority shall determine the composition of the membership of the board. At a minimum, the board shall be composed of one locally elected official, one representative of the health care industry, one representative of the business community, and one representative of the nongovernmental human services agencies from each participating locality if such nongovernmental human services agencies exist; and, sufficient citizen members to constitute the majority of the board, who shall not be employed by, nor board members of, nor financially linked to the partnering agencies, groups and corporations involved.

B. Each member of a board shall serve for a term of four years and may serve no more than two consecutive full terms. The creation of a vacancy on the board shall be filled in the same manner by the appointing locality, such position being filled for the unexpired term.

C. Members of the board of directors shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties from funds available to the board and according to policy determined by the board.

D. Each board shall elect from its membership a chairman, vice-chairman and secretary/treasurer. The board shall appoint an executive director who shall discharge such functions as may be directed by the board. The authority shall employ such staff as may be appropriate to coordinate the work of the participating organizations in support of programs and services approved by each board. The executive director and staff shall be paid from funds received by the authority.

E. Each board, promptly following the close of the fiscal year, shall submit an annual report of the authority's activities of the preceding year to the governing body of each member locality and to the Joint Commission on Health Care. Each such report shall set forth a complete operating and financial statement covering the operation of the authority during such year.

2001, c. [671](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0671); 2003, cc. [63](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0063), [70](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0070).

