# ยง 32.1-262 Records of adoptions.

A. For each adoption decreed by a court in this Commonwealth, the court shall require the preparation of a report of adoption on a form furnished by the State Registrar. The report shall (i) include such facts as are necessary to locate and identify the original certificate of birth of the person adopted or, in the case of a person who was born in a foreign country, evidence from sources determined to be reliable by the court as to the date, place of birth and parentage of such person; (ii) provide information necessary to establish a new certificate of birth of the person adopted; and (iii) identify the order of adoption and be certified by the clerk of court.

B. Information in the possession of the petitioner necessary to prepare the report of adoption shall be furnished with the petition for adoption by each petitioner for adoption or by his attorney. In all cases where a child is placed for adoption by a child-placing agency, the report shall be completed and filed with the court by a representative of the agency. A final order of adoption shall not be entered until the information required by this section has been furnished unless the court, for good cause shown, finds the information to be unavailable or unnecessary.

C. On or before the tenth day of each month, the clerk of such court shall forward to the State Registrar all records of decrees of adoption entered in the preceding calendar month, together with such related reports as the State Registrar may require.

D. When the State Registrar receives a report of adoption, annulment of adoption, amendment, or amendment of a decree of adoption for a person born outside this Commonwealth, such report shall be forwarded to the appropriate registration authority in the state of birth. When the State Registrar receives a report of adoption from a court in this Commonwealth for a person born in a foreign country, a birth certificate shall be registered for such person in accordance with the provisions of ยง [32.1-261](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-261/), and a copy of the report of adoption shall be transmitted to the appropriate federal agency.

Code 1950, ยง 32-353.32; 1964, c. 99; 1977, cc. 135, 531; 1979, c. 711; 1983, c. 240; 1988, c. 431; 2003, c. [504](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0504); 2004, c. [88](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0088).

