# § 32.1-374 Obligations of nonprofit entity.

Prior to disposition of assets, any nonprofit entity shall provide to the Attorney General written notice, on a form provided by the Attorney General, of its intent to dispose of such assets, including the terms of the proposal. The notice shall be given at least 60 days in advance of the effective date of such proposed transaction in order that the Attorney General may exercise his common law and statutory authority over the activities of these organizations. The Attorney General may employ expert assistance in reviewing any proposed transaction, and such reasonable expenses incurred by the Attorney General shall be paid by a party to the proposed transaction.

Within 10 days of receipt of the notice from the entity, the Attorney General shall cause a public notice of the transaction to be published in a newspaper in which legal notices may be published in that jurisdiction.

No later than 40 days prior to any disposition of assets, the nonprofit entity shall convene a public meeting to set forth its expectations concerning how the health care needs of the community will be served following the proposed disposition of assets and to receive comments and respond to questions on the potential impact of the proposed disposition of assets on the community served by the nonprofit entity. Notice of the time and place of such meeting shall be published at least 10 days prior to the meeting in a newspaper in which legal notices may be published in that jurisdiction.

Notice to the Attorney General pursuant to this section shall be given for State Corporation Commission approval sought pursuant to Article 11 (§ [13.1-893.1](/vacode/13.1-893.1/)) of Chapter 10 of Title 13.1 and §§ [38.2-203](/vacode/38.2-203/) and [38.2-1322](/vacode/38.2-1322/) through [38.2-1328](/vacode/38.2-1328/) and subdivision A 1 of § [38.2-4316](/vacode/38.2-4316/). Such notice need not be given where the State Corporation Commission determines, in its sole discretion, that there is a reasonable expectation that the foreign or domestic nonstock corporation licensed and subject to regulation under Chapter 42 (§ [38.2-4200](/vacode/38.2-4200/) et seq.) of Title 38.2 or health maintenance organization referenced in this chapter will not be able to meet its obligations to subscribers or enrollees.

The provisions of this section shall not apply to any disposition of assets subject to the provisions of § [38.2-4214.1](/vacode/38.2-4214.1/) or any of the provisions of Chapter 15 (§ [38.2-1500](/vacode/38.2-1500/) et seq.) of Title 38.2.

1997, c. [615](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0615), § 55-532; 2002, c. [516](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0516); 2007, c. [925](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0925); 2008, c. [253](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0253); 2018, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0706); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

