# ยง 32.1-69.1 Virginia Congenital Anomalies Reporting and Education System.

A. In order to collect data to evaluate the possible causes of stillbirths and birth defects, improve the diagnosis and treatment of birth defects, and establish a mechanism for informing the parents of children identified as having birth defects and their physicians about the health resources available to aid such children, the Commissioner shall establish and maintain a Virginia Congenital Anomalies Reporting and Education System using data from birth and death certificates and fetal death reports filed with the State Registrar of Vital Records and data obtained from hospital medical records. The chief administrative officer of every hospital, as defined in ยง [32.1-123](/vacode/32.1-123/), shall make or cause to be made a report to the Commissioner of any stillbirth and any person under two years of age diagnosed as having a congenital anomaly. The Commissioner may appoint an advisory committee to assist in the design and implementation of this reporting and education system with representation from relevant groups, including, but not limited to, physicians, geneticists, personnel of appropriate state agencies, persons with disabilities, and the parents of children with disabilities.

B. The Commissioner shall provide for a secure system, which may include online data entry that protects the confidentiality of data and information for which reporting is required, to implement the Virginia Congenital Anomalies Reporting and Education System.

At a minimum, data collected shall include, but need not be limited to, the following: (i) the infant's first and last name, date of birth, gender, state of residence, birth hospital, physician's name, date of admission, date of discharge or transfer, and diagnosis; (ii) the first and last names of the infant's parents; (iii) the first and last name of the primary contact person for the infant; and (iv) data pertaining to stillbirths and birth defects reported by hospitals and derived from birth and death certificates and fetal death reports filed with the State Registrar of Vital Records and such other sources as may be authorized by the Commissioner.

The Commissioner, as he deems necessary to facilitate the follow-up of infants whose data and health record information have been entered into the system, may authorize the integration or linking of the Virginia Congenital Anomalies Reporting and Education System with other Department of Health population-based surveillance systems.

In addition, to minimize duplication and ensure accuracy during data entry, the Commissioner may authorize hospitals required to report stillbirth and birth defect data to the system to view such existing data and information as may be designated by the Commissioner.

With the assistance of the advisory committee, the Board shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to implement this reporting and education system.

C. As used in this section, "stillbirth" means an unintended, intrauterine fetal death occurring after a gestational period of 20 weeks.

1985, c. 273; 1986, c. 136; 1988, cc. 459, 843; 1994, c. [854](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0854); 2006, cc. [699](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0699), [906](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0906); 2015, c. [661](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0661); 2020, c. [900](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0900).

