# ยง 32.1-326.2 Pilot school/community health centers.

The Department of Medical Assistance Services, in cooperation with the Department of Education, shall, consistent with the biennium budget cycle, examine and may revise the funding and components of the pilot school/community health centers. Any revisions shall be designed to maximize access to health care for poor children, and to improve the funding by making use of every possible, cost-effective means, Medicaid reimbursement or program. Any revisions shall be focused on prevention of large costs for acute or medical care and may include, but not be limited to:

1. Funding sources and means of distribution for the state match which will clearly demonstrate that local governments are not funding the state match for these centers.

2. The benefits and drawbacks of allowing school divisions to provide services to disabled students as Medicaid providers.

3. The appropriate credentials of the providers of care in the school health centers, e.g., licensure by the Board of Education and compliance with federal requirements or licensure by a regulatory board within the Department of Health Professions.

4. Utilization of the individualized education plan, when signed by a physician, as the plan of care authorizing services.

5. Delivery of medically necessary services, such as rehabilitation services, psychiatric and psychological evaluations and therapy, transportation, and nursing.

6. Payment for Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT) services, with proper medical oversight, in consultation with the students' primary care physicians.

7. The role of the Medallion and Options programs in regard to the school health centers and flexibility for school divisions regarding any required referrals.

Any funds necessary to support revisions to the school/community health center projects shall be included in the budget estimates for the departments, as appropriate.

1996, c. [864](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0864).

