# § 32.1-357 Board of Trustees; appointment; officers; quorum; executive committee; compensation and expenses.

A. The Foundation shall be governed and administered by a Board of Trustees consisting of 23 members. Two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates from among the membership of the House of Delegates, one representing rural interests and one representing urban interests; two members shall be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, one representing rural interests and one representing urban interests, from among the membership of the Senate; two members shall be the Commissioner of the Department of Health or his designee and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority or his designee; and 17 nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, as follows: (i) five designated representatives of public health organizations, such as the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, Virginia Pediatric Society, Virginia Academy of Family Physicians, Virginia Dental Association, American Lung Association of Virginia, Medical Society of Virginia, Virginia Association of School Nurses, Virginia Nurses Association, and the Virginia Thoracic Society; (ii) four health professionals in the fields of oncology, cardiology, pulmonary medicine, and pediatrics; and (iii) eight citizens at large, including two youths. Of the eight citizen at large members, three adults shall be appointed by the Governor from a list of six provided by members of the General Assembly appointed to the Foundation and one member who is under the age of 18 years shall be appointed by the Governor from a list of three provided by the members of the General Assembly appointed to the Foundation.

Legislative members and the Commissioner of the Department of Health and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority shall serve terms coincident with their terms of office. Following the initial staggering of terms, nonlegislative citizen members shall serve four-year terms. Vacancies in the membership of the Board shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired portion of the term. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments. Legislative members may be reappointed for successive terms. No nonlegislative citizen member shall be eligible to serve for more than two successive four-year terms; however, after the expiration of a term of three years or less, or after the expiration of the remainder of a term to which he was appointed to fill a vacancy, two additional terms may be served by such member if appointed thereto. Immediately after such appointment, the members shall enter upon the performance of their duties.

B. The Foundation shall appoint from the membership of the Board a chairman and vice-chairman, both of whom shall serve in such capacities at the pleasure of the Foundation. The chairman, or in his absence, the vice-chairman, shall preside at all meetings of the Board. A majority of the members of the Board serving at any one time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The Board shall meet annually or more frequently at the call of the chairman.

The Board may establish an executive committee composed of the chairman, vice-chairman, and three additional members elected by the Board from its membership. The chairman of the Board shall serve as the chairman of the executive committee and shall preside over its meetings. In the absence of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall preside. The executive committee may exercise the powers and transact the business of the Board in the absence of the Board or when otherwise directed or authorized by the Board. A majority of the members of the executive committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Any actions or business conducted by the executive committee shall be acted upon by the full board as soon as practicable.

C. Legislative members shall receive such compensation as provided in § [30-19.12](/vacode/30-19.12/) and nonlegislative citizen members shall receive compensation as provided in § [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) for their services. All members shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided by §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). Such compensation and expenses shall be paid from the Fund.

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no officer or employee of the Commonwealth shall be deemed to have forfeited or shall forfeit his office or employment by reason of his acceptance of membership on the Board or his service to the Foundation.

E. Members of the Board and employees of the Foundation shall be subject to the standards of conduct set forth in the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (§ [2.2-3100](/vacode/2.2-3100/) et seq.) and may be removed from office for misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, neglect of duty, or misconduct in the manner set forth therein.

1999, cc. [880](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0880), [962](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0962); 2000, c. [1067](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1067); 2004, c. [1000](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000); 2005, c. [19](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0019); 2015, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038), [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730).

