# § 33.2-226 Authority to lease or convey airspace.

The Commissioner of Highways may lease or sell and convey the airspace superjacent or subjacent to any highway in the Commonwealth that is within his jurisdiction and in which the Commonwealth owns fee simple title after satisfying itself that use of the airspace will not impair the full use and safety of the highway or otherwise interfere with the free flow of traffic thereon and it cannot be reasonably foreseen as needed in the future for highway and other transit uses and purposes. The Commissioner of Highways may provide in such leases and conveyances of airspace for columns of support, in fee or otherwise, ingress, egress, and utilities.

No lease or conveyance shall be entered into by the Commissioner of Highways unless the locality, by action of its governing body by majority recorded vote, approves the projected use of the airspace in question and has taken such steps as it deems proper to regulate the type and use of the improvements to be erected in such airspace by appropriate zoning or other method of land use control.

All leases and conveyances shall contain those terms deemed necessary by the Commissioner of Highways to protect the interests of the Commonwealth and the public. The Commissioner of Highways may utilize any competitive procurement process authorized by law, including (i) competitive sealed bidding, (ii) competitive negotiation, (iii) best value procurements as defined in § [2.2-4301](/vacode/2.2-4301/), and (iv) public-private partnerships pursuant to the Public-Private Transportation Act of 1995 (§ [33.2-1800](/vacode/33.2-1800/) et seq.), as determined by the Commissioner of Highways, in his sole discretion, to be appropriate and the method most likely to achieve the identified goals of the proposed lease or sale and conveyance of airspace. The Commissioner of Highways may reject any bid or offer that he believes is not in the best interest of the Commonwealth.

Compensation paid for such leases and conveyances shall be credited to the Priority Transportation Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1527](/vacode/33.2-1527/).

1979, c. 431, § 33.1-183.1; 2013, cc. [585](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0585), [646](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0646); 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805); 2017, c. [278](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0278); 2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

