# § 33.2-1524 Commonwealth Transportation Fund.

A. There is hereby created in the Department of the Treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Commonwealth Transportation Fund (the Fund). The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. Any moneys remaining in the Fund at the end of the year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. The Fund shall consist of all funds appropriated to the Fund and all funds dedicated to the Fund pursuant to law, including:

1. Revenues pursuant to §§ [58.1-2289](/vacode/58.1-2289/) and [58.1-2701](/vacode/58.1-2701/);

2. Revenues pursuant to subsections A and G of § [58.1-638](/vacode/58.1-638/) and § [58.1-638.3](/vacode/58.1-638.3/);

3. Tolls and other revenues derived from the projects financed or refinanced pursuant to this title that are payable into the state treasury and tolls and other revenues derived from other transportation projects, which may include upon the request of the applicable appointed local governing body, as soon as their obligations have been satisfied, such tolls and revenue derived for transportation projects pursuant to the Chesapeake Bay Bridge and Tunnel District and Commission established in Chapter 22 (§ [33.2-2200](/vacode/33.2-2200/) et seq.) and to the Richmond Metropolitan Transportation Authority established in Chapter 29 (§ [33.2-2900](/vacode/33.2-2900/) et seq.), or if the appointed local governing body requests refunding or advanced refunding by the Board and such refunding or advanced refunding is approved by the General Assembly. Such funds shall be held in separate subaccounts of the Commonwealth Transportation Fund to the extent required by law or the Board;

4. Revenues pursuant to § [58.1-2425](/vacode/58.1-2425/);

5. Revenues pursuant to subdivisions A 1 through 12 of § [46.2-694](/vacode/46.2-694/) and §§ [46.2-694.1](/vacode/46.2-694.1/), [46.2-697](/vacode/46.2-697/), and [46.2-697.2](/vacode/46.2-697.2/), except where provided elsewhere in such sections and excluding revenues deposited into a special fund for the Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to § [46.2-686](/vacode/46.2-686/);

6. Revenues pursuant to § [58.1-1741](/vacode/58.1-1741/);

7. Revenues pursuant to § [58.1-815.4](/vacode/58.1-815.4/);

8. Revenues from § [58.1-2249](/vacode/58.1-2249/);

9. Such other funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly from time to time and designated for the Commonwealth Transportation Fund;

10. All interest, dividends, and appreciation that may accrue to the Transportation Trust Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1524.1](/vacode/33.2-1524.1/) and the Highway Maintenance and Operating Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1530](/vacode/33.2-1530/);

11. All amounts required by contract to be paid over to the Commonwealth Transportation Fund;

12. Concession payments paid to the Commonwealth by a private entity pursuant to the Public-Private Transportation Act of 1995 (§ [33.2-1800](/vacode/33.2-1800/) et seq.); and

13. Revenues pursuant to § [58.1-2531](/vacode/58.1-2531/).

B. Funds in the Fund shall be distributed as follows:

1. Of the funds from subdivisions A 1, 2, 4 through 8, and 13: (i) 51 percent to the Highway Maintenance and Operating Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1530](/vacode/33.2-1530/) and (ii) 49 percent to the Transportation Trust Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1524.1](/vacode/33.2-1524.1/);

2. The funds from subdivisions A 3 and 12 shall be deposited into the Transportation Trust Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1524.1](/vacode/33.2-1524.1/);

3. Of the funds from subdivision A 10: (i) two-thirds shall be deposited in the Virginia Transportation Infrastructure Bank established pursuant to Article 1 (§ [33.2-1500](/vacode/33.2-1500/) et seq.) and (ii) one-third shall be deposited into the Transportation Partnership Opportunity Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1529.1](/vacode/33.2-1529.1/).

C. From funds available pursuant to subsection B, (i) $40 million annually shall be deposited into the Route 58 Corridor Development Fund pursuant to § [33.2-2300](/vacode/33.2-2300/), (ii) $40 million annually shall be deposited into the Northern Virginia Transportation District Fund pursuant to § [33.2-2400](/vacode/33.2-2400/), and (iii) $80 million annually shall be deposited into the Special Structure Fund pursuant to § [33.2-1532](/vacode/33.2-1532/), though the amount deposited shall be adjusted annually based on the change in the United States Average Consumer Price Index for all items, all urban consumers (CPI-U), as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor. Such deposits may be made in one or more installments.

1986, Sp. Sess., c. 13, § 33.1-23.03:1; 1988, cc. 844, 903; 1991, cc. 666, 713; 1992, c. 108; 1993, c. 793; 2006, c. [922](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0922); 2009, c. [471](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0471); 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805); 2014, cc. [469](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0469), [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805); 2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

