# § 33.2-1510 Fund for access roads and bikeways to public recreational areas and historical sites; construction, maintenance, etc., of such facilities.

A. The General Assembly finds and declares that there is an increasing demand by the public for more public recreational areas throughout the Commonwealth, therefore creating a need for more access to these areas. There are also many sites of historical significance to which access is needed.

The General Assembly hereby declares it to be in the public interest that access roads and bikeways to public recreational areas and historical sites be provided by using funds obtained from motor fuel tax collections on motor fuel used for propelling boats and ships and funds contained in the highway portion of the Transportation Trust Fund.

B. Prior to making allocations pursuant to subsection B of § [33.2-358](/vacode/33.2-358/), the Board shall set aside the sum of $3 million initially. This fund shall be expended by the Board for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or improvement of access roads and bikeways within localities. At the close of each succeeding fiscal year, the Board shall replenish this fund to the extent it deems necessary to carry out the purpose intended, provided the balance in the fund plus the replenishment does not exceed $3 million.

C. Upon the setting aside of the funds as provided in this section, the Board shall construct, reconstruct, maintain, or improve access roads and bikeways to public recreational areas and historical sites upon the following conditions:

1. When the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation has designated a public recreational area as such or when the Director of the Department of Historic Resources has determined a site or area to be historic and recommends to the Board that an access road or bikeway be provided or maintained to that area;

2. When the Board pursuant to the recommendation from the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation declares by resolution that the access road or bikeway be provided or maintained;

3. When the governing body of the locality in which the access road or bikeway is to be provided or maintained passes a resolution requesting the road; and

4. When the governing body of the locality in which the bikeway is to be provided or maintained adopts an ordinance pursuant to Article 7 (§ [15.2-2280](/vacode/15.2-2280/) et seq.) of Chapter 22 of Title 15.2.

No access road or bikeway shall be constructed, reconstructed, maintained, or improved on privately owned property.

D. Any access road constructed, reconstructed, maintained, or improved pursuant to the provisions of this section shall become part of the primary state highway system, the secondary state highway system, or the road system of the locality in which it is located in the manner provided by law and shall thereafter be constructed, reconstructed, maintained, and improved as other roads or highways in such systems. Any bikeway path constructed, reconstructed, maintained, or improved pursuant to the provisions of this section that is not situated within the right-of-way limits of an access road that has become, or which is to become, part of the primary state highway system, the secondary state highway system, or the road system of the locality shall, upon completion, become part of and be regulated and maintained by the authority or agency maintaining the public recreational area or historical site. It shall be the responsibility of the authority, agency, or locality requesting that a bikeway be provided for a public recreational or historical site to provide the right-of-way needed for the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or improvement of the bikeway if such is to be situated outside the right-of-way limits of an access road.

To maximize the impact of the Fund, not more than $400,000 of recreational access funds may be allocated for each individual access road project to or within any public recreational area or historical site operated by a state agency and not more than $250,000 of recreational access funds may be allocated for each individual access road project to or within a public recreational area or historical site operated by a locality or an authority with an additional $100,000 if supplemented on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the locality or authority from other than highway sources. Not more than $75,000 of recreational access funds may be allocated for each individual bikeway project to a public recreational area or historical site operated by a state agency and not more than $60,000 of recreational access funds may be allocated for each individual bikeway project to a public recreational area or historical site operated by a locality or an authority with an additional $15,000 if supplemented on a dollar-for-dollar basis by a locality or authority from other than highway sources.

The Board, with the concurrence of the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation, is hereby authorized to establish guidelines to carry out the provisions of this section.

Code 1950, § 33-136.3; 1966, c. 484; 1968, c. 221; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-223; 1975, c. 362; 1982, c. 643; 1984, c. 739; 1989, cc. 305, 656; 1990, c. 689; 1992, c. 108; 1996, cc. [101](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0101), [131](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0131); 2005, cc. [25](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0025), [453](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0453); 2013, c. [222](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0222); 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805); 2015, c. [684](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0684); 2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

