# ยง 33.2-2903 Issuance of revenue bonds.

The Authority is hereby authorized to provide by resolution for the issuance of revenue bonds of the Authority for the purpose of paying all or any part of the cost of Authority facilities or any project or portion of such facilities. The principal of and interest on such bonds shall be payable solely from the revenues pledged for such payment. The bonds of each issue or series shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates not exceeding six percent per year, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 50 years from the date or dates thereof, as may be determined by the Authority, and may contain provisions reserving the right of the Authority to redeem such bonds before maturity at such price or prices and upon such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Authority in the resolution authorizing such bonds. Such bonds may be issued in coupon form, registered form, or both as prescribed by the Authority, and provisions may be made for the registration of coupon bonds as to principal only or as to both principal and interest and for the reconversion of registered bonds into coupon bonds. Such bonds may be issued in any denomination and may be made payable at any bank or trust company within or without the Commonwealth as the Authority may determine. Such bonds and the coupons attached to coupon bonds shall be signed in such manner either manually or by facsimile signature, as shall be determined by the Authority, and sealed with the seal of the Authority or a facsimile thereof. In case any officer whose signature or facsimile thereof shall appear on any bond or coupon shall cease to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature or such facsimile signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes, the same as if such officer or officers had remained in office until the delivery thereof. The Authority may sell such bonds in such manner either at public or private sale and for such price or prices as the Authority may determine, but no such sale shall be made at a price so low as to require the payment of interest on the money received therefor at more than six percent per year, computed with relation to the absolute maturity of the bonds in accordance with standard tables of bond values, excluding from such computation the amount of any premium to be paid on the redemption of any bond prior to maturity. Prior to the preparation of definitive bonds, the Authority may, under like restrictions, issue interim receipts or temporary bonds, with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds when such bonds shall have been executed and are available for delivery. The Authority may also provide for the replacement of any bond that has become mutilated, destroyed, or lost.

2009, c. [471](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0471), ยง 15.2-7003; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

