# ยง 33.2-1815 Utility crossings.

A. The private entity and each public service company, public utility, railroad, cable television provider, locality, or political subdivision whose facilities are to be crossed or affected shall cooperate fully with the other in planning and arranging the manner of the crossing or relocation of the facilities. Any such entity possessing the power of condemnation is hereby expressly granted such powers in connection with the moving or relocation of facilities to be crossed by the qualifying transportation facility or that must be relocated to the extent that such moving or relocation is made necessary or desirable by construction of or improvements to the qualifying transportation facility, which shall be construed to include construction of or improvements to temporary facilities for the purpose of providing service during the period of construction or improvement.

B. Should the private entity and any such public service company, public utility, railroad, and cable television provider be unable to agree upon a plan for the crossing or relocation, the Commission may determine the manner in which the crossing or relocation is to be accomplished and any damages due arising out of the crossing or relocation. The Commission may employ expert engineers who shall examine the location and plans for such crossing or relocation, hear any objections and consider modifications, and make a recommendation to the Commission. In such a case, the cost of the experts is to be borne by the private entity. Any amount to be paid for such crossing, construction, moving, or relocation of facilities shall be paid for by the private entity or any other person contractually responsible therefor under the interim or comprehensive agreement or under any other contract, license, or permit. The Commission shall make a determination within 90 days of notification by the private entity that the qualifying transportation facility will cross utilities subject to the Commission's jurisdiction.

C. Should the private entity and any locality or political subdivision not be able to agree upon a plan for the crossing or relocation of facilities owned or operated by the locality or political subdivision, then the private entity may request in writing to the Commonwealth Transportation Board (Board), with a copy to the chief executive or chief administrative officer of the locality or political subdivision, that the Board consider the matter pursuant to its authority in ยง [33.2-308](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-308/), which shall apply mutatis mutandis to any project pursuant to this chapter, regardless of the highway system or location of the project, if the Board decides to exercise such authority, except, however, that the private entity, and not the Board, shall be responsible for the costs of such crossing, construction, moving, or relocation of such facilities. In the event the Board decides to exercise its authority hereunder, the Board shall issue an order within 90 days of receipt of the request from the private entity.

D. For the purposes of this chapter, "facilities owned or operated by the local government or political subdivision" means any pipes, mains, storm sewers, water lines, sanitary sewers, natural gas facilities, or other structures, equipment, and appliances owned or operated by a locality or political subdivision for the purpose of transmitting or distributing communications, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, sewage or waste, storm water not connected with highway drainage, or any other similar commodity or substance, which facilities directly or indirectly serve the public.

1994, c. [855](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0855), ยง 56-570; 1995, c. [647](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0647); 2005, cc. [504](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0504), [562](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0562); 2014, cc. [474](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0474), [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

