# ยง 33.2-2104 District advisory boards.

Within 30 days after the establishment of a district under this chapter, the governing body shall appoint six members to a district advisory board, and the town council of any participating town shall appoint two members to that board. Three of the six members appointed by the governing body shall be chosen by the governing body from nominations submitted to the governing body by the petitioners. If any members are subject to appointment by a town council as provided in this section, then one of the two members so appointed shall be chosen by the town council from nominations submitted to the town council by the petitioners. All members shall own or represent the owners of real property within the district zoned or used for commercial or industrial purposes. Each member shall be appointed for a term of four years, except the initial appointment of advisory board members shall provide that the terms of three of the members shall be for two years. If a vacancy occurs with respect to an advisory board member initially appointed by a governing body or a town council, or any successor of such a member, the governing body or the town council, as appropriate, shall appoint a new member who is an owner or representative of an owner of real property within the district zoned or used for commercial or industrial purposes. If a vacancy occurs with respect to an advisory board member initially nominated by the petitioners, or any successor thereof, the remaining advisory board members initially nominated by the petitioners, or the successors of such remaining advisory board members, shall nominate a new member for selection by the governing body or town council, as appropriate.

District advisory board members shall serve without pay, but the governing body shall provide the advisory board with facilities for the holding of meetings, and the commission shall appropriate funds needed to defray the reasonable expenses and fees of the advisory board, which shall not exceed $20,000 annually, including expenses and fees arising out of the preparation of the annual report. Such appropriations shall be based on an annual budget submitted by the board, and approved by the commission, sufficient to carry out its responsibilities under this chapter. The advisory board shall elect a chairman and a secretary and such other officers as it deems necessary. The advisory board shall fix the time for holding regular meetings, but it shall meet at least once every year. Special meetings of the advisory board shall be called by the chairman or by two members of the advisory board upon written request to the secretary of the advisory board. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.

The advisory board shall present an annual report to the commission on the transportation needs of the district and on the activities of the advisory board, and the advisory board shall present special reports on transportation matters as requested by the commission or the governing body concerning taxes to be levied pursuant to this chapter.

2001, c. [611](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0611), ยง 33.1-434; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

