# ยง 33.2-372 Interstate Operations and Enhancement Program.

A. The Board shall establish the Interstate Operations and Enhancement Program (the Program) to improve the safety, reliability, and travel flow along interstate highway corridors in the Commonwealth.

B. The Board may use funds in the Program to address identified needs in the Statewide Transportation Plan pursuant to ยง [33.2-353](/vacode/33.2-353/) or an interstate corridor plan approved by the Board through (i) operational and transportation demand management strategies and (ii) other transportation improvements, strategies, or services.

C. The Board, with the assistance of the Office of Intermodal Planning and Investment, shall establish a process to evaluate and prioritize potential strategies and improvements, with priority given first to operational and transportation demand management strategies that improve reliability and safety of travel.

D. The Board may not use funds in the Program to supplant existing levels of support as of July 1, 2019, for existing operational and transportation demand management strategies.

E. The Board shall distribute to the Interstate 81 Corridor Improvement Fund established pursuant to [33.2-3601](/vacode/33.2-3601/) an amount equal to the revenues provided to the Program multiplied by the ratio of the vehicle miles traveled on Interstate 81 by vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher by the Federal Highway Administration to the total vehicle miles traveled on all interstate highways in the Commonwealth by vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher.

F. The Board shall distribute to the Northern Virginia Transportation Authority Fund established pursuant to ยง [33.2-2509](/vacode/33.2-2509/) an amount equal to the revenues provided to the Program multiplied by the ratio of vehicle miles traveled on interstate highways in Planning District 8 by vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher by the Federal Highway Administration to the total vehicles miles traveled on all interstate highways in the Commonwealth by vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher.

G. For any interstate highway with more than 10 percent of total vehicle miles traveled by vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher by the Federal Highway Administration, the Board shall ensure that the total long-term expenditure for each interstate highway shall be approximately equal to the proportion of the total revenue deposited in the Fund attributable to each interstate highway based on such interstate highway's proportional share of interstate vehicle miles traveled by vehicles classified as Class 6 or higher.

2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

