# § 33.2-1718 Revenues.

The Board shall fix and revise as may be necessary tolls for the use of each project for which bonds are issued or proposed to be issued under the provisions of this chapter and shall charge and collect the same and may contract with any person, partnership, association, or corporation desiring the use of such project, approaches, and appurtenances, and any part thereof, for placing thereon water, gas, or oil pipelines or telephone, telegraph, electric light, or power lines, or for any other purpose, and may fix the terms, conditions, and rates and charges for such use. Such tolls shall be so fixed and adjusted, in respect of the aggregate of tolls from the project on account of which a single issue of bonds is issued under this chapter, as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues of such project, if any, to pay (i) the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating such project unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for and (ii) such bonds and the interest thereon as the same shall become due. Such tolls shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any other state commission, board, bureau, or agency. Except for those persons exempted by § [33.2-613](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-613/), it shall be unlawful for the Department or any Department employee to give or permit free passage over any project set forth in the definition of "project" in § [33.2-1700](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-1700/) that has been secured through the issuance of revenue bonds and which bonds are payable from the revenues of such project. Every vehicle and person shall pay the same toll as others similarly situated. Except as provided in § [33.2-613](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-613/), the provisions in this section shall apply with full force and effect to vehicles and employees of the state government and governments of counties, cities, and towns or other political subdivisions and to vehicles and persons of all other categories and descriptions, public, private, eleemosynary, or otherwise.

Code 1950, § 33-245; 1956, c. 158; 1968, c. 170; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-285; 1973, c. 215; 1981, c. 417; 1982, c. 242; 1983, c. 617; 1986, Sp. Sess., c. 13; 1988, cc. 844, 903; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

