# § 33.2-214.2 Transparency in the development of the Six-Year Improvement Program, statewide prioritization process, and state of good repair program.

A. The Board shall develop the Six-Year Improvement Program pursuant to § [33.2-214](/vacode/33.2-214/) in a transparent manner that provides to the public, elected officials, and other stakeholders the opportunity to engage and comment in a meaningful manner prior to the adoption of such program.

B. No later than 150 days prior to a vote to include projects or strategies evaluated pursuant to § [33.2-214.1](/vacode/33.2-214.1/) in the Six-Year Improvement Program, the Office of Intermodal Planning and Investment shall make public, in an accessible format, (i) a recommended list of projects and strategies for inclusion in the Six-Year Improvement Program based on the results of such evaluation; (ii) the results of the screening of candidate projects and strategies, including whether such projects are located on a primary evacuation route; (iii) whether a project has been designed to be or the project sponsor has committed that the design will be resilient; and (iv) the results of the evaluation of candidate projects and strategies, including the weighting of factors and the criteria used to determine the value of each factor.

C. The Department shall make public a recommended list of projects eligible for funds under the state of good repair program pursuant to § [33.2-369](/vacode/33.2-369/) from the listing of prioritized pavement and bridge needs published in the Commissioner's annual report pursuant to § [33.2-232](/vacode/33.2-232/) at least 150 days prior to the adoption of a Six-Year Improvement Program that includes new projects with funding from such program.

D. The Board may modify the recommended list of projects in subsection B or C through formal action.

2017, cc. [166](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0166), [273](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0273); 2020, c. [971](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0971); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [51](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0051), [52](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0052).

