# ยง 33.2-2204 Additional powers of the Commission.

The Commission has the power:

1. To construct grade separations at intersections of the project with public highways and to change and adjust the lines and grades of such highways so as to accommodate the same to the design of such grade separation. The cost of such grade separations and any damage incurred in changing and adjusting the lines and grades of such highways shall be ascertained and paid by the Commission as a part of the cost of the project.

2. To change the location of any portion of any public highway. The Commission shall cause the portion of the public highway to be reconstructed at such location as the Commission deems most favorable and of substantially the same type and in as good condition as the original highway. The cost of such reconstruction and any damage incurred in changing the location of any such highway shall be ascertained and paid by the Commission as a part of the cost of the project.

Any public highway affected by the construction of the project may be vacated or relocated by the Commission in the manner now provided by law for the vacation or relocation of public roads, and any damages awarded on account thereof shall be paid by the Commission as a part of the cost of the project.

3. To enter upon any lands, waters, and premises in the Commonwealth, along with its authorized agents and employees, for the purpose of making surveys, soundings, drillings, and examinations as they may deem necessary or convenient for the purposes of this chapter, and such entry shall not be deemed a trespass, nor shall an entry for such purposes be deemed an entry under any condemnation proceedings that may be then pending. The Commission shall make reimbursement for any actual damage resulting to such lands, waters, and premises as a result of such activities.

4. To make reasonable regulations for the installation, construction, maintenance, repair, renewal, relocation, and removal of tracks, pipes, mains, conduits, cables, wires, towers, poles, and other equipment and appliances (herein called "public utility facilities") of any public utility in, on, along, over, or under the project. When public utility facilities that are or may be located in, on, along, over, or under the project should be relocated in the project, or should be removed from the project, the public utility owning or operating such facilities shall relocate or remove the same in accordance with the order of the Commission, provided that the cost and expenses of such relocation or removal, including the cost of installing such facilities in a new location, and the cost of any lands, or any rights or interests in lands, and any other rights, acquired to accomplish such relocation or removal, shall be ascertained and paid by the Commission as a part of the cost of the project. In case of any such relocation or removal of facilities, the public utility owning or operating the facilities, its successors or assigns, may maintain and operate such facilities, with the necessary appurtenances, in the new location, for as long a period, and upon the same terms and conditions, as it had the right to maintain and operate such facilities in their former location.

The Commonwealth hereby consents to the use of all lands owned by it, including lands lying under water, that are deemed by the Commission to be necessary for the construction or operation of the project.

1956, c. 693; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

