# ยง 33.2-3802 Creation of the authority.

The governing bodies of any three or more members within the region may, by ordinance, create a regional passenger rail station authority. The ordinance adopted by each participating governing body shall (i) set forth the name of the proposed passenger rail station authority, which shall include the words "passenger rail station authority"; (ii) name the members; (iii) contain findings that the economic growth and development of the member and the comfort, convenience, and welfare of its citizens require the development of facilities and that the creation of a regional passenger rail station authority will facilitate development of the needed facilities; and (iv) authorize the execution of an agreement establishing the respective rights and obligations of the members regarding the authority consistent with the provisions of this chapter. In the case of a member institution of higher education, the governing body shall adopt a resolution that includes such information and intent. Such ordinances, or resolutions, shall be filed with the Secretary of the Commonwealth. Upon certification by the Secretary of the Commonwealth that the ordinances and resolutions required by this chapter have been filed and, upon the basis of the facts set forth therein, satisfy such requirements, the proposed authority shall be and constitute an authority for all of the purposes of this chapter, to be known and designated by the name stated in the ordinances. Upon the issuance of such certificate, the authority shall be deemed to have been lawfully and properly created and established and authorized to exercise its powers under this chapter. At any time, subsequent to the creation of an authority under this chapter, the members of the authority may, with the approval of the authority's board, be expanded to include any locality or institution of higher education within the region that was eligible to be an initial member of the authority. The governing body seeking to become a member of the authority shall evidence its intent to become a member by adopting an ordinance proposing to join the authority that conforms, to the extent possible, to the requirements for an ordinance set forth in clauses (i), (iii), and (iv).

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [353](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0353), [354](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0354).

