# ยง 33.2-314 Transfer of highways, bridges, and streets from secondary to primary state highway system; additions to primary state highway system.

A. The Board may transfer such highways, bridges, and streets as it deems proper from the secondary state highway system to the primary state highway system. Upon such transfer, the highways, bridges, and streets so transferred shall become for all purposes parts of the primary state highway system. The Board may add such highways, bridges, and streets as it deems proper to the primary state highway system. The total mileage of such highways, bridges, and streets so transferred or added by the Board shall not exceed 50 miles during any one year.

B. When the Chief Engineer of the Department recommends that it is appropriate in connection with the completion of a construction or maintenance project to transfer highways, bridges, and streets from the secondary state highway system to the primary state highway system, the Commissioner of Highways may transfer such highways, bridges, and streets as he deems proper. Upon such transfer, the highways, bridges, and streets so transferred shall become for all purposes parts of the primary state highway system and cease being parts of the secondary state highway system.

Code 1950, ยง 33-26; 1952, c. 17; 1970, c. 322, ยง 33.1-34; 2011, cc. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0036), [152](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0152); 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

