# ยง 33.2-2003 Powers and duties of commission.

The commission shall:

1. Construct, reconstruct, alter, improve, expand, make loans or otherwise provide financial assistance to, and operate transportation improvements in the district for the use and benefit of the public.

2. Acquire by gift, purchase, lease, in-kind contribution to construction costs, or otherwise any transportation improvements in the district and sell, lease as lessor, transfer, or dispose of any part of any transportation improvements in such manner and upon such terms as the commission may determine to be in the best interests of the district. However, prior to disposing of any such property or interest therein, the commission shall conduct a public hearing with respect to such disposition. At the hearing, the residents and owners of property within the district shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least 10 days' notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the district, as prescribed by the commission. Such public hearing may be adjourned from time to time.

3. Negotiate and contract with any person with regard to any matter necessary and proper to provide any transportation improvements, including the financing, acquisition, construction, reconstruction, alteration, improvement, expansion, or maintenance of any transportation improvements in the district.

4. Enter into a continuing service contract for a purpose authorized by this chapter and make payments of the proceeds received from the special taxes levied pursuant to this chapter, together with any other revenues, for installments due under that service contract. The district may apply such payments annually during the term of that service contract in an amount sufficient to make the installment payments due under that contract, subject to the limitation imposed by this chapter. However, payments for any such service contract shall be conditioned upon the receipt of services pursuant to the contract. Such a contract shall not obligate a locality to make payments for services of the district.

5. Accept the allocations, contributions, or funds of any available source or reimburse from any available source, including any person, for the whole or any part of the costs, expenses, and charges incident to the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, maintenance, alteration, improvement, or expansion of any transportation improvements in the district.

6. Contract for the extension and use of any public mass transit system or highway into territory outside the district on such terms and conditions as the commission determines.

7. Employ and fix the compensation of personnel who may be deemed necessary for the construction, operation, or maintenance of any transportation improvements in the district.

8. Have prepared an annual audit of the district's financial obligations and revenues, and upon review of such audit, request a tax rate adequate to provide tax revenues that, together with all other revenues, are required by the district to fulfill its annual obligations.

1993, c. 395, ยง 33.1-414; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

