# § 33.2-3701 Central Virginia Transportation Fund.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund for Planning District 15 to be known as the Central Virginia Transportation Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All revenues dedicated to the Fund pursuant to § [58.1-638](/vacode/58.1-638/) and Chapter 22.1 (§ [58.1-2291](/vacode/58.1-2291/) et seq.) of Title 58.1 shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. The moneys deposited in the Fund shall be used solely for (i) transportation purposes benefiting the localities comprising Planning District 15 and (ii) administrative and operating expenses as specified in subsection B of § [33.2-3706](/vacode/33.2-3706/).

B. The amounts dedicated to the Fund shall be deposited monthly by the Comptroller into the Fund and thereafter distributed to the Authority as soon as practicable for use in accordance with this chapter. If the Authority determines that such moneys distributed to it exceed the amount required to meet the current needs and demands to fund transportation purposes pursuant to this chapter, the Authority may invest such excess moneys to the same extent and in the same manner as provided in subsection A of § [33.2-1525](/vacode/33.2-1525/) for excess funds in the Transportation Trust Fund.

C. The amounts deposited into the Fund and the distribution and expenditure of such amounts shall not be used to calculate or reduce the share of federal, state, or local revenues otherwise available to participating localities. Further, such revenues and moneys shall not be included in any computation of, or formula for, a locality's ability to pay for public education, upon which appropriations of state revenues to local governments for public education are determined.

D. After provision for the payment of administrative and operating expenses as specified in subsection B of § [33.2-3706](/vacode/33.2-3706/), the revenues in the Fund shall be allocated as follows:

1. Thirty-five percent shall be retained by the Authority to be used for transportation-related purposes benefiting the localities comprising Planning District 15;

2. Fifteen percent shall be distributed to the Greater Richmond Transit Company (GRTC), or its successor, to provide transit and mobility services in Planning District 15; and

3. Fifty percent shall be returned, proportionally, to each locality located in Planning District 15 to be used to improve local mobility, which may include construction, maintenance, or expansion of roads, sidewalks, trails, mobility services, or transit located in the locality.

E. Each locality's share of the revenues returned pursuant to subdivision D 3 shall be the total of the taxes dedicated to the Fund that are generated or attributable to the locality divided by the total of such taxes dedicated to the Fund. Each locality shall create a separate, special fund in which all revenues received pursuant to subdivision D 3 shall be deposited. Each locality shall annually provide to the Authority sufficient documentation, as required by the Authority, showing that the revenues distributed under subdivision D 3 were used for the purposes set forth therein.

F. The projects and other transportation purposes supported by the revenues allocated under subdivisions D 1 and 2 shall be approved by the Authority.

G. The GRTC shall create a separate, special fund in which all revenues received pursuant to subdivision D 2 shall be deposited. The GRTC shall develop a plan for regional public transportation within Planning District 15 in collaboration with the Richmond Regional Transportation Planning Organization in conformance with the guidelines required by § [33.2-286](/vacode/33.2-286/). The GRTC shall annually provide to the Authority sufficient documentation, as required by the Authority, showing that the revenues distributed under subdivision D 2 were applied in accordance with Authority approval and the guidelines required by § [33.2-286](/vacode/33.2-286/).

H. The Authority shall develop a prioritization process based on an objective and quantifiable analysis that considers the benefits of projects relative to their cost. Only projects evaluated using such process may be funded pursuant to subdivision D 1.

2020, c. [1235](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1235).

