# ยง 33.2-1901 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Agency" or "such agency" means an agency authorized by, or arising from action of, the General Assembly to plan for or provide transportation facilities and service for a metropolitan area located wholly or in part in the Commonwealth.

"Commission" or "district commission" means the governing body of a district.

"Component governments" means the counties and cities composing a transportation district and the various departments, bureaus, and divisions of such counties and cities.

"District" means a transportation district authorized to be created by this chapter.

"Governing bodies" means the boards of supervisors of counties and councils of cities composing a transportation district.

"Metropolitan area" means a metropolitan statistical area as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau and the Office of Management and Budget or any contiguous counties or cities within the Commonwealth that together constitute an urban area.

"Person" means an individual, partnership, association, or corporation or any governmental agency or authority.

"State," when applied to a part of the United States, includes any of the 50 states and the District of Columbia.

"Transportation facilities," "transit facilities," or "facilities" means all those matters and things utilized in rendering transportation service by means of rail, bus, water, or air and any other mode of travel, including tracks, rights-of-way, bridges, tunnels, subways, and rolling stock for rail, motor vehicle, marine, and air transportation; stations, terminals, and ports; areas for parking; buildings; structures; and all equipment, fixtures, and business activities reasonably required for the performance of transportation service, but does not include any such facilities owned by any person, company, association, or corporation the major part of whose transportation service extends beyond a transportation district created in this chapter.

1964, c. 631, ยง 15.1-1344; 1986, c. 438; 1997, c. 587, ยง 15.1-4502; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

