# § 33.2-907 Conveying sections of highways or other property no longer necessary.

A. Whenever a highway or a section of a highway has been abandoned in accordance with the provisions of § [33.2-902](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-902/) or [33.2-906](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-906/) and is deemed by the Commissioner of Highways no longer necessary for the uses of the primary state highway system, the Commissioner of Highways shall so certify in writing and may execute in the name of the Commonwealth a deed or deeds conveying such section or sections of highway, either for consideration or in exchange for other lands that may be necessary for the uses of the primary state highway system. Before any such deed either for the sale or exchange of land is executed conveying any section of a highway along which any person resides, the Commissioner of Highways shall give notice to the governing bodies of the county and town and to the owner of the land upon which such person resides of the intention to convey the section of highway. If after a reasonable notice of such intention any such landowner or local governing body so requests, a hearing shall be ordered by the Commissioner of Highways as provided in this article. If upon such hearing it is determined that such section of highway should be left open for the reasonable convenience of such landowner or the public, then such section of highway shall not be conveyed. No such hearing shall be held if such highway was abandoned under § [33.2-902](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-902/).

B. When real estate acquired incidental to the construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, and repair of the primary state highway system that does not constitute a section of the public highway is deemed by the Commissioner of Highways no longer necessary for the uses of the primary state highway system, the Commissioner of Highways shall so certify in writing and may execute in the name of the Commonwealth a deed conveying such real estate, interest therein, or any portion thereof, either for consideration or in exchange for other lands that may be necessary for the uses of the primary state highway system.

C. Upon petition of a local governing body, the Board may transfer real estate acquired incidental to the construction, reconstruction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of the primary state highway system that constitutes a section of public highway to the local governing body, and upon such transfer such section of highway shall cease being a part of the primary state highway system.

Code 1950, § 33-76.6; 1950, p. 730; 1954, c. 88; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-149; 2002, c. [445](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0445); 2011, cc. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0036), [152](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0152); 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

