# § 33.2-1700 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Board" means the Commonwealth Transportation Board, or if the Commonwealth Transportation Board is abolished, any board, commission, or officer succeeding to the principal functions thereof or upon whom the powers given by this chapter to the Board shall be given by law.

"Cost of the project," as applied to a project to be acquired by purchase or by condemnation, includes:

1. The purchase price or the amount of the award;

2. The cost of improvements, financing charges, and interest during any period of disuse before completion of improvements;

3. The cost of traffic estimates and of engineering data;

4. The cost of engineering and legal expenses;

5. The cost of plans, specifications and surveys, and estimates of cost and of revenues; and

6. Other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the enterprises, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this chapter and the acquisition of the project and the placing of the project in operation.

"Cost of the project," as applied to a project to be constructed, includes:

1. The cost of construction;

2. The cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired that are deemed necessary for such construction;

3. The cost of acquiring by purchase or condemnation any ferry that is deemed by the Board to be competitive with any bridge to be constructed;

4. The cost of all machinery and equipment;

5. The cost of financing charges and interest prior to construction, during construction, and for one year after completion of construction;

6. The cost of traffic estimates and of engineering data;

7. The cost of engineering and legal expenses;

8. The cost of plans, specifications and surveys, estimates of cost and of revenues; and

9. Other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the enterprise, administrative expenses, and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this chapter, the construction of the project, the placing of the project in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation.

"Improvements" means those repairs to, replacements of, additions to, and betterments of a project acquired by purchase or by condemnation as are deemed necessary to place it in a safe and efficient condition for the use of the public, if such repairs, replacements, additions, and betterments are ordered prior to the sale of any bonds for the acquisition of such project.

"Owner" includes all individuals, incorporated companies, partnerships, societies, and associations having any title or interest in any property rights, easements, or franchises authorized to be acquired by this chapter.

"Project" means any one or more of the following:

1. The York River Bridges, extending from a point within Yorktown in York County or within York County across the York River to Gloucester Point or some point in Gloucester County.

2. The Rappahannock River Bridge, extending from Greys Point, or its vicinity, in Middlesex County, across the Rappahannock River to a point in the vicinity of White Stone, in Lancaster County, or at some other feasible point in the general vicinity of the two respective points.

3. The James River Bridge, from a point at or near Jamestown, in James City County, across the James River to a point in Surry County.

4. The James River, Chuckatuck, and Nansemond River Bridges, together with necessary connecting roads, in the Cities of Newport News and Suffolk and the County of Isle of Wight.

5. The Hampton Roads Bridge-Tunnel or Bridge and Tunnel System, extending from a point or points in the Cities of Newport News and Hampton on the northwest shore of Hampton Roads across Hampton Roads to a point or points in the City of Norfolk or Suffolk on the southeast shore of Hampton Roads.

6. Interstate 264, extending from a point in the vicinity of the intersection of Interstate 64 and U.S. Route 58 at Norfolk to some feasible point between London Bridge and U.S. Route 60.

7. The Henrico-James River Bridge, extending from a point on the eastern shore of the James River in Henrico County to a point on the western shore, between Falling Creek and Bells Road interchanges of Interstate 95; however, the project shall be deemed to include all property, rights, easements, and franchises relating to this project and deemed necessary or convenient for its operation, including its approaches.

8. The limited access highway between the Newport News/Williamsburg International Airport area and the Newport News downtown area, which generally runs parallel to tracks of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad.

9. Transportation improvements in the Dulles Corridor, with an eastern terminus of the East Falls Church Metrorail station at Interstate 66 and a western terminus of Virginia Route 772 in Loudoun County, including without limitation the Dulles Toll Road; the Dulles Access Road; outer roadways adjacent or parallel thereto; mass transit, including rail; bus rapid transit; and capacity-enhancing treatments such as high-occupancy vehicle lanes, high-occupancy toll lanes, interchange improvements, commuter parking lots, and other transportation management strategies.

10. Subject to the limitations and approvals of § [33.2-1712](/vacode/33.2-1712/), any other highway for a primary highway transportation improvement district or transportation service district that the Board has agreed to finance under a contract with any such district or any other alternative mechanism for generation of local revenues for specific funding of a project satisfactory to the Board, the financing for which is to be secured by Transportation Trust Fund revenues under any appropriation made by the General Assembly for that purpose and payable first from revenues received under such contract or other local funding source; second, to the extent required, from funds appropriated and allocated, pursuant to the highway allocation formula as provided by law, to the highway construction district in which the project is located or to the county or counties in which the project is located; and third, to the extent required from other legally available revenues of the Transportation Trust Fund and from any other available source of funds.

11. The U.S. Route 58 Corridor Development Program projects as defined in §§ [33.2-2300](/vacode/33.2-2300/) and [33.2-2301](/vacode/33.2-2301/).

12. The Northern Virginia Transportation District Program as defined in §§ [33.2-2400](/vacode/33.2-2400/) and [33.2-2401](/vacode/33.2-2401/).

13. Any program for highways or mass transit or transportation facilities endorsed by the affected localities, which agree that certain distributions of state recordation taxes will be dedicated and used for the payment of any bonds or other obligations, including interest thereon, the proceeds of which were used to pay the cost of the program. Any such program shall be referred to as a "Transportation Improvement Program."

14. Any project designated by the General Assembly financed in whole or part through the issuance of Commonwealth of Virginia Federal Highway Reimbursement Anticipation Notes.

15. Any project authorized by the General Assembly financed in whole or in part by funds from the Priority Transportation Fund established pursuant to § [33.2-1527](/vacode/33.2-1527/) or from the proceeds of bonds whose debt service is paid in whole or in part by funds from such Fund.

16. Any project identified by the Board to be financed in whole or in part through the issuance of Commonwealth of Virginia Federal Transportation Grant Anticipation Revenue Notes.

17. The Interstate 81 Corridor Improvement Program projects as defined in §§ [33.2-3600](/vacode/33.2-3600/) and [33.2-3602](/vacode/33.2-3602/).

18. Railroad and other infrastructure improvements leading into Washington, D.C., from Virginia and new Metrorail-related improvements to, and serving, the Rosslyn Metrorail station in Arlington County.

"Revenues" includes tolls and any other moneys received or pledged by the Board pursuant to this chapter, including legally available Transportation Trust Fund revenues and any federal highway reimbursements and any other federal highway assistance received by the Commonwealth.

"Toll project" means a project financed in whole or in part through the issuance of revenue bonds that are secured by toll revenues generated by the project.

"Undertaking" means all of the projects authorized to be acquired or constructed under this chapter.

Code 1950, § 33-228; 1950, p. 145; 1954, c. 578; 1956, c. 158; 1962, c. 273; 1964, c. 558; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-268; 1972, c. 2; 1974, cc. 52, 297; 1982, c. 261; 1986, Sp. Sess., c. 13; 1988, cc. 844, 903; 1989, Sp. Sess., cc. 9, 11; 1990, c. 710; 1991, cc. 666, 713; 1993, cc. 391, 793; 1994, cc. [520](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0520), [589](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0589); 1995, c. [354](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0354); 2000, cc. [1019](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1019), [1044](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1044); 2004, c. [807](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0807); 2007, c. [896](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0896); 2011, cc. [830](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0830), [868](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0868); 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805); 2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

