# § 33.2-905 Appeal to circuit court.

A. Any one or more of the landowners who filed a petition, the governing body of any county or town in which the section of highway or the railroad crossing is wholly or partly located, or the Commissioner of Highways may within 30 days from the entry of the order by the Board appeal from the order to the circuit court of the county in which the section of highway or the railroad crossing, or the major portion thereof, sought to be abandoned under § [33.2-902](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-902/) is located. If the Board fails to enter an order pursuant to § [33.2-902](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-902/), such person or persons named in this section may appeal to the appropriate circuit court within 30 days from such failure. Such appeal shall be filed by petition in the clerk's office of such court, setting out the order appealed from or the cause appealed from where no order was entered and the grounds of such appeal. Upon the filing of such petition, the clerk of the circuit court shall docket the appeal, giving it a preferred status. If the appeal is by any of the landowners who filed a petition with the Board for a public hearing, notice of such appeal shall be served upon the attorney for the Commonwealth and the Commissioner of Highways. If the appeal is by the local governing body or the Commissioner of Highways, notice of such appeal shall be served upon the landowners who filed petition with the Board for a public hearing. No such appeal shall be tried by the court within 10 days after notice is given as provided in this section unless such notice is waived. The circuit court shall hear the matter de novo with further right of appeal as provided by law. Upon the hearing of the appeal, the court shall ascertain and by its order determine whether public necessity exists for the continuance of the section of highway or the railroad crossing as a public highway or public railroad crossing or whether the welfare of the public will be served best by abandoning the section of the highway or the railroad crossing as a public highway or public railroad crossing and shall enter its order accordingly. The clerk of the court shall certify a copy of the order of the court to the Board.

B. Upon any such appeal, if it appears to the court that by the abandonment of such section of highway or such railroad crossing as a public highway or public railroad crossing any party to such appeal would be deprived of access to a public highway, the court may cause the railroad company or the local governing body to be made parties to the proceedings, if not already parties, and may enter such orders as seem just and proper for keeping open such section of highway or such railroad crossing for the benefit of such party or parties.

C. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any discontinuance of a portion of the primary state highway system under § [33.2-901](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/33.2-901/).

Code 1950, § 33-76.4; 1950, p. 729; 1970, c. 322, § 33.1-147; 1978, c. 187; 2014, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805).

