# § 35.1-7 Penalties, injunctions, civil penalties and charges for violations.

A. Any person willfully violating, or refusing, failing, or neglecting to comply with any regulation or order of the Board or Commissioner, or any provision of this title, shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor unless a different penalty is specified. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.

B. Any person violating, or failing, neglecting, or refusing to obey any lawful regulation or order of the Board or Commissioner, or any provision of this title, may be compelled in a proceeding instituted in an appropriate court by the Board or Commissioner to obey and comply with such regulation, order, or provision of this title. The proceeding may be by injunction, mandamus, or other appropriate remedy.

C. Without limiting the remedies which may be obtained pursuant to subsection B, any person violating or failing, neglecting, or refusing to obey any injunction, mandamus, or other remedy obtained pursuant to subsection B shall be subject, in the discretion of the court, to a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 for each violation. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.

D. With the consent of any person who has violated or failed, neglected, or refused to obey any regulation or order of the Board or Commissioner or any provision of this title, the Board may provide, in an order issued by the Board against such person, for the payment of civil charges for past violations in specific sums not to exceed the limit set forth in subsection C. Such civil charges shall be in place of any appropriate civil penalty which could be imposed under subsection C.

Code 1950, §§ 35-7, 35-21, 35-41, 35-53; 1981, c. 468.

