# ยง 36-166 Housing revitalization zone grants.

A. As used in this section:

"Qualified zone improvements" means the amount properly chargeable to a capital account for improvements to rehabilitate or undertake construction on real property during the applicable year within a housing revitalization zone, provided that the total amount of such improvements equals or exceeds (i) for a qualified business firm, an investment of $25,000 in rehabilitation expenses on each housing unit, $50,000 in new construction expenses for each single family housing unit, or $40,000 for each multifamily housing unit or (ii) for a qualified owner occupant, an investment of $12,500 in rehabilitation expenses or $50,000 in new construction expenses for each housing unit. Qualified zone improvements include expenditures associated with any exterior, structural, mechanical, plumbing, utility, or electrical improvements necessary to rehabilitate or construct a building for residential use and excavations, grading, paving, driveways, roads, sidewalks, landscaping, or other land improvements. Qualified zone improvements shall also include, but not be limited to, costs associated with demolition, carpentry, sheetrock, plaster, painting, ceilings, fixtures, doors, windows, fire suppression systems, roofing and flashing, exterior repair, cleaning, and cleanup.

Qualified zone improvements shall not include:

1. The cost of acquiring any real property or building.

2. (i) The cost of furnishings; (ii) any expenditure associated with appraisal, architectural, engineering and interior design fees; (iii) loan fees, points, or capitalized interest; (iv) legal, accounting, realtor, sales and marketing, or other professional fees; (v) closing costs, permits, user fees, zoning fees, impact fees, and inspection fees; (vi) bids, insurance, signage, utilities, bonding, copying, rent loss, or temporary facilities incurred during construction; or (vii) outbuildings.

B. Beginning on and after July 1, 2000, a qualified business firm or qualified owner occupant may be allowed a grant from the Housing Revitalization Zone Fund for making qualified zone improvements. The grant amount shall not exceed thirty percent of the qualified zone improvements; however, in no event shall the total grants paid to a qualified business firm or qualified owner occupant exceed $50,000 per housing unit for qualified zone improvements made during the period in which such area of a county, city, or town is designated as a housing revitalization zone. Additionally, the total grants paid to a qualified business firm for a housing complex with five or more attached housing units may not exceed $150,000 over such period.

C. Local governments shall certify that the zone improvements made within housing revitalization zones within their jurisdictions comply with all locally adopted plans and ordinances.

2000, cc. [789](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0789), [795](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0795).

