# ยง 36-156.3 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"CDFI" means a community development financial institution that provides credit and financial services for underserved communities.

"Department" means the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.

"Fund" means the Virginia Food Access Investment Fund.

"Funding" means loans, forgivable loans, and grants made from the Fund.

"Grocery store" means a for-profit or not-for-profit self-service retail establishment that primarily sells meat, seafood, fruits, vegetables, dairy products, dry groceries, household products, and sundries.

"Innovative food retail project" means an innovative project, including a mobile market or a delivery model, that addresses food access issues in an underserved community.

"Program" means the Virginia Food Access Investment Program.

"Small food retailer," also referred to as a small-scale store, neighborhood store, small grocery, farmer's market, or bodega, means a small retail outlet of under 2,500 square feet that sells a limited selection of foods and other products.

"Underserved community" means a census tract determined to be an area with low supermarket access either by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), as identified in the USDA Food Access Research Atlas, or through a methodology that has been adopted for use by another governmental or philanthropic healthy food initiative.

2020, cc. [956](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0956), [957](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0957).

