# ยง 36-169 Review and termination of housing revitalization zone.

A. Upon designation of an area as a housing revitalization zone, the proposals for regulatory flexibility, tax incentives and other public incentives specified in this chapter shall be binding upon the local governing body to the extent and for the period of time specified in the application for zone designation. If the local governing body is unable or unwilling to provide the regulatory flexibility, tax incentives or other public incentives as proposed in the application for zone designation, the housing revitalization zone shall terminate. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง [36-166](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-166/), qualified business firms and qualified owner occupants located in such housing revitalization zone shall be eligible to receive the grants provided by this chapter for a period of two years after the zone designation has terminated. No business firm or owner occupant may become a qualified business firm or qualified owner occupant after the date of zone termination. The governing body may amend its application with the approval of the Department, provided the governing body proposes an incentive equal to or superior to the unamended application.

B. The Department shall periodically review the effectiveness of the grant program and local incentives in increasing investment in each housing revitalization zone. If no business firms or owner occupants in a housing revitalization zone have qualified for grants provided pursuant to this chapter within a five-year period, the Department shall terminate that housing revitalization zone designation.

2000, cc. [789](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0789), [795](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0795); 2004, c. [577](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0577).

