# ยง 36-55.36 Terms and conditions of mortgage insurance.

(1) For mortgage payments to be eligible for insurance under the provisions of this chapter, the underlying mortgage loan shall: (a) be one which is made to and held by a mortgagee approved by HDA as responsible and able to service the mortgage properly; (b) not exceed (i) 100% of the estimated cost of such proposed housing development if owned or to be owned by a nonprofit mortgagor or if owned by a person or family of low or moderate income, in the case of a single-family dwelling or condominium; or, (ii) 95% of the estimated cost of the proposed housing development if owned or to be owned by any other mortgagor; (c) have a maturity satisfactory to HDA but in no case longer than 80% of HDA's estimate of the remaining useful life of said housing or 40 years from the date of the issuance of insurance, whichever is earlier; (d) contain amortization provisions satisfactory to HDA requiring periodic payments by the mortgagor not in excess of his reasonable ability to pay as determined by HDA; (e) be in such form and contain such terms and provisions with respect to maturity, property insurance, repairs, alterations, payment of taxes and assessments, default reserves, delinquency charges, default remedies, anticipation of maturity, additional and secondary liens, equitable and legal redemption rights, prepayment privileges and other matters as HDA may prescribe.

(2) All applications for mortgage insurance shall be forwarded, together with an application fee prescribed by HDA, to the executive director of HDA. HDA shall cause an investigation of the proposed housing to be made, review the application and the report of the investigation, and approve or deny the application. No application shall be approved unless HDA finds that it is consistent with the purposes of this chapter and further finds that the financing plan for the proposed housing is sound. HDA shall notify the applicant and the proposed lender of its decision. Any such approval shall be conditioned upon payment to HDA, within such reasonable time and after notification of approval as may be specified by HDA, of the commitment fee prescribed by HDA.

(3) HDA shall fix mortgage insurance premiums for the insurance of mortgage payments under the provisions of this chapter. Such premiums shall be computed as a percentage of the principal of the mortgage outstanding at the beginning of each mortgage year, but shall not be more than one-half of one per centum per year of such principal amount. The amount of premium need not be uniform for all insured loans. Such premiums shall be payable by mortgagors or mortgagees in such manner as prescribed by HDA.

(4) In the event of default by the mortgagor, the mortgagee shall notify HDA both of the default and the mortgagee's proposed course of action. When it appears feasible, HDA may for a temporary period upon default or threatened default by the mortgagor authorize mortgage payments to be made by HDA to the mortgagee which payments shall be repaid under such conditions as HDA may prescribe. HDA may also agree to revised terms of financing when such appear prudent. The mortgagee shall be entitled to receive the benefits of the insurance provided herein upon: (a) Any sale of the mortgaged property by court order in foreclosure or a sale with the consent of HDA by the mortgagor or a subsequent owner of the property or by the mortgagee after foreclosure or acquisition by deed in lieu of foreclosure, provided all claims of the mortgagee against the mortgagor or others arising from the mortgage, foreclosure, or any deficiency judgment shall be assigned to HDA without recourse except such claims as may have been released with the consent of HDA; or (b) the expiration of six months after the mortgagee has taken title to the mortgaged property under judgment of strict foreclosure, foreclosure by sale or other judicial sale, or under a deed in lieu of foreclosure if during such period the mortgagee has made a bona fide attempt to sell the property, and thereafter conveys the property to HDA with an assignment, without recourse, to HDA of all claims of the mortgagee against the mortgagor or others arising out of the mortgage foreclosure, or deficiency judgment; or (c) the acceptance by HDA of title to the property or an assignment of the mortgage, without recourse to HDA, in the event HDA determines it imprudent to proceed under (a) or (b) above. Upon the occurrence of either (a), (b) or (c) hereof, the obligation of the mortgagee to pay premium charges for insurance shall cease, and HDA shall, within thirty days thereafter, pay to the mortgagee ninety-eight percent of the sum of (i) the then unpaid principal balance of the insured indebtedness, (ii) the unpaid interest to the date of conveyance or assignment to HDA, as the case may be, (iii) the amount of all payments made by the mortgagee for which it has not been reimbursed for taxes, insurance, assessments and mortgage insurance premiums, and (iv) such other necessary fees, costs or expenses of the mortgagee as may be approved by HDA.

(5) Upon request of the mortgagee, HDA may at any time, under such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, consent to the release of the mortgagor from his liability or consent to the release of parts of the property from the lien of the mortgage, or approve a substitute mortgagor or sale of the property or part thereof.

(6) No claim for the benefit of the insurance provided in this chapter shall be accepted by HDA except within one year after any sale or acquisition of title of the mortgaged premises described in subdivision (a) or (b) of subsection (4) of this section.

1972, c. 830; 1975, c. 536.

