# ยง 36-55.28 Appointment and tenure of commissioners; officers; quorum; compensation; liability.

A. The powers of HDA shall be vested in the commissioners of HDA as follows: a representative of the Board of Housing and Community Development, such representative to be selected by that Board; the Director of the Department of Housing and Community Development as an ex officio voting commissioner; the Treasurer of the Commonwealth; and seven persons appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, for terms of four years. An additional commissioner satisfying the criteria specified by Section 2 (b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, for a term of four years. If, however, after appointment, the additional commissioner no longer satisfies such criteria, he may be removed by the Governor effective upon the appointment and qualification of his successor, who shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term. In appointing persons to the commission the Governor shall refrain from appointing more than three persons from any one commercial or industrial field. No commissioner appointed pursuant to this chapter by the Governor shall serve more than two consecutive full terms. Any vacancies in the membership of HDA shall be filled in like manner but only for the remainder of an unexpired term. Except as otherwise provided in this section, each commissioner shall hold office for the term of his appointment and until his successor shall have been appointed and qualified.

B. The commissioners shall elect from among their number a chairman and a vice-chairman annually and such other officers as they may determine. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever two commissioners so request. Five commissioners of the HDA shall constitute a quorum and any action taken by HDA under the provisions of this chapter may be authorized by resolution approved by a majority of the commissioners who are present at any regular or special meeting. No vacancy in the membership of the HDA shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the HDA.

C. Each commissioner shall be compensated from funds of the HDA at the rate per day specified in ยง [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/) for each day or portion thereof in which the commissioner is engaged in the business of the HDA. In addition, each commissioner shall be reimbursed for his reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out his duties under this chapter.

D. Commissioners and employees of HDA shall be subject to the standards of conduct set forth in the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (ยง [2.2-3100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-3100/) et seq.) and may be removed from office for inefficiency, neglect of duty or misconduct in the manner set forth therein.

E. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no officer or employee of this Commonwealth shall be deemed to have forfeited or shall forfeit his office or employment by reason of his acceptance of membership on HDA or his service thereto.

F. HDA may use its funds, and may obtain liability insurance or provide self-insurance, for the payment or reimbursement of costs and expenses (including, without limitation, amounts paid or to be paid in satisfaction of judgment or settlement, penalties, attorneys' fees and expenses, and court costs) incident to any liability of its commissioners and employees arising from the performance or discharge of their official duties and such other activities as the commissioners of HDA may by resolution approve for the purpose of making such payment or reimbursement or providing such insurance or self-insurance.

1972, c. 830; 1974, c. 668; 1975, c. 536; 1976, c. 117; 1977, c. 613; 1985, c. 70; 1987, Sp. Sess., c. 1; 1988, c. 226; 1992, c. 754; 1993, c. 857; 2002, c. [454](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0454); 2003, c. [434](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0434).

