# ยง 36-85.24 Presenting claims for warranties and defects.

Whenever a claim for a warranty service or about a defect is made to a regulant, it shall be handled as provided by this chapter. A record shall be made of the name and address of each claimant and the date, substance, and disposition of each claim about a defect. The regulant may request that a claim be made in writing, but nevertheless shall record it as provided above, and may not delay service pending receipt of the written claim.

When the regulant notified is not the responsible party, he shall, in writing, immediately notify the claimant of that fact, and shall also, in writing, immediately notify the responsible party of the claim. When a responsible party is asked to remedy defects, such party may not fail to remedy those defects because another responsible party may also be responsible. Nothing herein shall prevent a responsible party from obtaining compensation by way of contribution or subrogation from another responsible party in accordance with any other provision of law or contract.

Within the time limits provided in this chapter, the regulant shall either resolve the claim or determine that it is not justified. At any time a regulant determines that a claim for service is not justified in whole or part, he shall immediately notify the claimant in writing that the claim or part of the claim is rejected and why, and shall inform the claimant that he is entitled to complain to the Board. The complete mailing address of the Board shall be provided in the notice. Within five working days of receipt of a complaint, the Board shall send a complete copy thereof to the Director.

1991, c. 555; 1992, c. 223.

