# ยง 36-85.26 Dealer alterations.

A. No alteration or modification shall be made to a manufactured home by a dealer after shipment from the manufacturer's plant, unless such alteration or modification is authorized by this chapter or the manufacturer. The dealer shall ensure that all authorized alterations and modifications are performed, if so required, by qualified persons as defined in subsection D. An unauthorized alteration or modification performed by a dealer or his agent or employee shall place primary warranty responsibility for the altered or modified item upon the dealer. If the manufacturer fulfills or is required to fulfill the warranty on the altered or modified item, he shall be entitled to recover damages in the amount of his cost and attorney's fee from the dealer.

B. An unauthorized alteration or modification of a manufactured home by the owner or his agent shall relieve the manufacturer of responsibility to remedy defects caused by such alterations or modifications. A statement to this effect, together with a warning specifying those alterations or modifications which should be performed only by qualified personnel in order to preserve warranty protection, shall be displayed clearly and conspicuously on the face of the warranty. Failure to display such statement shall result in the manufacturer being responsible for the warranty.

C. The Board is authorized to promulgate regulations in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) which define the alterations or modifications which must be made by qualified personnel in accordance with the applicable standards of the Code. The Board may require qualified personnel for those alterations and modifications which could impair the structural integrity or safety of the manufactured home.

D. In order to be designated as a person qualified to alter or modify a manufactured home, a person shall comply with state licensing or competency requirements in skills relevant to performing alterations or modifications on manufactured homes.

1991, c. 555; 1992, c. 223.

