# ยง 36-96.9 Procedures for receipt or initiation of complaint; notice to parties; filing of answer.

A. A complaint under ยง [36-96.8](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-96.8/) shall be filed with the Board in writing within one year after the alleged discriminatory housing practice occurred or terminated.

B. Any person not named in the complaint and who is identified as a respondent in the course of the investigation may be joined as an additional or substitute respondent upon written notice to such person by the Board explaining the basis for the Board's belief that such person is properly joined as a respondent.

C. Any respondent may file an answer to a complaint. Complaints and answers must be made in writing, under oath or affirmation, and in such form as the Board requires. Complaints and answers may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time.

D. Upon the filing of a complaint or initiation of a complaint by the Board or its designee, the Board shall provide written notice to the parties as follows:

1. To the aggrieved person acknowledging the filing and advising such person of the time limits and choice of forums under this chapter; and

2. To the respondent, not later than ten days after such filing or the identification of an additional respondent under subsection B, identifying the alleged discriminatory housing practice and advising such respondent of the procedural rights and obligations of respondents under this chapter with a copy of the original complaint and copies of any supporting documentation referenced in the complaint.

1991, c. 557.

