# ยง 36-96.10 Procedures for investigation.

A. The Board shall commence proceedings with respect to a complaint within thirty days after receipt of the complaint, and shall complete the investigation within 100 days thereof unless it is impracticable to do so. If the Board is unable to complete the investigation within 100 days after the receipt of the complaint, the aggrieved person and the respondent shall be notified in writing of the reasons for not doing so.

B. When conducting an investigation of a complaint filed under this chapter, the Board shall have the right to interview any person who may have any information which may further its investigation and to request production of any records or documents for inspection and copying in the possession of any person which may further the investigation. Such persons shall be interviewed under oath. The Board or its designated subordinates shall have the power to issue and serve a subpoena to any such person to appear and testify and to produce any such records or documents for inspection and copying. Said subpoenas and discovery may be ordered to the same extent and subject to the same limitations as would apply if the subpoenas or discovery were ordered or served as part of a civil action in the Commonwealth of Virginia. In case of refusal or neglect to obey a subpoena, the Board may petition for its enforcement in the Circuit Court for the City of Richmond. The hearing on such petition shall be given priority on the court docket over all cases which are not otherwise given priority on the court docket by law.

C. At the end of each investigation under this section, the Board shall prepare a final investigative report containing:

1. The names and dates of contacts with witnesses;

2. A summary and the dates of correspondence and other contacts with the aggrieved person and the respondent;

3. A summary description of other pertinent records;

4. A summary of witness statements; and

5. Answers to interrogatories.

A final report under this subsection may be amended if additional evidence is later discovered.

D. The Board shall make available to the aggrieved person and the respondent, at any time, upon request following completion of the Board's investigation, information derived from an investigation and any final investigative report relating to that investigation.

1975, c. 566, ยง 36-94.1; 1991, c. 557; 1998, c. [634](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0634).

