# § 37.2-705 Private funds provided for individuals receiving services.

A. The Commissioner is hereby authorized to provide for the deposit with the director or other proper officer of any state facility of any money given or provided for the purpose of supplying extra comforts, conveniences, or services to any individual in a state facility and any money otherwise received and held from, for, or on behalf of any individual in a state facility.

B. All funds so provided or received shall be deposited to the credit of the state facility in a special fund in a bank or banks designated by the Commissioner and shall be disbursed as may be required by the respective donors or, in the absence of such requirement, as directed by the director.

C. The director of each state facility shall furnish to the Commissioner annually a statement showing the amounts of funds received and deposited, the amounts expended, and the amounts remaining in such special funds at the end of the year. The Commissioner shall have authority to invest so much of the remaining funds as he may deem proper in United States government bonds or other securities authorized by law for the investment of fiduciary funds. The interest from these investments may be expended as a part of a welfare fund at each state facility.

D. If any individual receiving services for whose benefit any such fund has been or shall be provided has departed or shall depart from any state facility, leaving any unexpended balance in such fund, and the director, in the exercise of reasonable diligence, has been or shall be unable to find the person or persons entitled to such unexpended balance, the Commissioner may, after the lapse of three years from the date of such departure, authorize the use of the balance for the benefit of all or any of the individuals then in the state facility.

Code 1950, §§ 37-47 to 37-50; 1950, p. 902; 1968, c. 477, §§ 37.1-29 to 37.1-32; 1972, c. 639; 1976, c. 671; 1980, c. 582; 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716); 2012, cc. [476](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476), [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507).

