# ยง 37.2-314.2 Problem Gambling Treatment and Support Fund.

A. As used in this section:

"Compulsive gambling" means persistent and recurrent problem gambling behavior leading to clinically significant impairment or distress, as indicated by an individual exhibiting four or more of the criteria as defined by the Diagnostic Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders in a 12-month period and where the behavior is not better explained by a manic episode.

"Problem gambling" means a gambling behavior that causes disruptions in any major area of life, including the psychological, social, or vocational areas of life, but does not fulfill the criteria for diagnosis as a gambling disorder.

B. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Problem Gambling Treatment and Support Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All revenue accruing to the Fund pursuant to subsection A of ยง [58.1-4038](/vacode/58.1-4038/) and moneys required to be deposited into the Fund pursuant to Chapter 41 (ยง [58.1-4100](/vacode/58.1-4100/) et seq.) of Title 58.1 shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of (i) providing counseling and other support services for compulsive and problem gamblers, (ii) developing and implementing compulsive and problem gambling treatment and prevention programs, and (iii) providing grants to support organizations that provide assistance to compulsive and problem gamblers. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Commissioner.

2020, c. [1197](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1197), [1218](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1218), [1248](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1248), [1256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1256), ยง 37.2-314.1.

