# § 37.2-840 Transfer of individuals receiving services.

A. The Commissioner may order the transfer of an individual receiving services from one state hospital to another or from one training center to another. When so transferred, in accordance with appropriate admission, certification, or involuntary admission criteria as provided in this chapter, the individual is hereby declared to be lawfully admitted to the state facility to which he is transferred.

B. If the guardian, conservator, or relative of an individual receiving services in a licensed hospital refuses or is otherwise unable to provide properly for his care and treatment, the person in charge of the licensed hospital may:

1. Apply to the Commissioner for the transfer of the individual to a state hospital, or

2. Apply to the Director of the United States Veterans Affairs Medical Center for the transfer of the individual to the center.

Upon the transfer, the state hospital or Veterans Affairs Medical Center may admit the individual under the authority of the admission or order applicable to the licensed hospital from which the individual was transferred. The transfer shall not alter any right of an individual under the provisions of Chapter 8 (§ [37.2-800](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/37.2-800/) et seq.) of Title 37.2 nor shall the transfer divest a judge or special justice before whom a hearing or request therefor is pending of jurisdiction to conduct a hearing. Prior to accepting the transfer of any individual from a licensed hospital, the Commissioner shall receive from that hospital a report that indicates that the individual is in need of further hospitalization. Upon admission of an individual to a state hospital pursuant to this section, the director of the state hospital shall notify the community services board or behavioral health authority that serves the city or county where the admitted individual resides of the individual's name and local address and of the location of the state hospital to which the individual has been admitted, provided that the individual or his guardian has authorized the release of the information.

C. Whenever an individual is admitted by a state hospital or training center, the Commissioner, upon a recommendation by the community services board or behavioral health authority serving the individual's county or city of residence prior to his admission to the hospital or training center, may order the transfer of the individual to any other hospital, training center, or Veterans Affairs hospital, center, or other facility or installation. Such other hospital, training center, or Veterans Affairs hospital, center, or other facility or installation may admit the individual under the authority of the admission or order applicable to the hospital or training center from which the individual was transferred. The transfer shall not alter any right of the individual under the provisions of this chapter nor shall the transfer divest a judge or special justice before whom a hearing or request therefor is pending of jurisdiction to conduct such hearing.

Code 1950, §§ 37-7, 37-126.1; 1950, pp. 900, 918; 1968, c. 477, §§ 37.1-48, 37.1-86, 37.1-99; 1970, c. 673, § 37.1-78.1; 1976, c. 671; 1980, cc. 582, 583; 1984, c. 174; 1986, c. 349; 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716); 2012, cc. [476](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476), [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507).

