# ยง 37.2-311 Review of applications for state or federal funds or services used in substance abuse programs.

A. No state agency that is authorized to issue final approval or disapproval of or to make a final review and comment on any application for state funds or services that are to be used in a substance abuse program shall take final action on an application until the application is first reviewed and commented on by the Department to determine its compatibility with the comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services, and thereafter the review and comment by the Department shall remain a part of the application documents.

B. Every applicant for any state funds, services, loans, grants-in-aid, or matching funds that are to be used in connection with any substance abuse program shall submit a copy of the application for those funds, services, loans, grants-in-aid, or matching funds to the Department for review and comment simultaneously with submission of the application to the funding source.

C. The Department shall review and comment on each application within 45 days after receiving the application or in accordance with the requirements of the funding source.

D. Every applicant for any federal funds that are to be used in connection with any substance abuse program shall submit a summary of the application for those funds to the Department for review and comment simultaneously with submission of the application to the funding source. If the application is approved, the applicant shall then provide the Department with a complete copy of the application as funded within 45 days of receiving official notification of funding.

E. Each state agency requesting an appropriation or a change in an existing appropriation from the General Assembly for substance abuse programs shall submit the request to the Department for review and comment to determine its compatibility with the comprehensive interagency state plan for substance abuse services and shall supply the Department with all relevant information, including a full report on funds expended pursuant to prior appropriations. The Department shall provide the Governor and the General Assembly with its assessment of each request by a state agency for an appropriation or a change in an existing appropriation.

1976, c. 767, ยง 37.1-206; 1980, c. 582; 1998, c. [724](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0724); 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716); 2008, c. [83](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0083).

