# ยง 37.2-715 Who liable for expenses; amount.

Any person who has been or who may be admitted to any state facility or who is the subject of counseling or receives treatment from the staff of a state facility shall be deemed to be an individual receiving services for the purposes of this article.

The income and estate of an individual receiving services shall be liable for the expenses of his care, treatment or training, and maintenance in a state facility. Any person responsible for holding, managing, or controlling the income and estate of the individual receiving services shall apply the income and estate toward the expenses of the individual's care, treatment or training, and maintenance.

Any person responsible for the support of an individual receiving services pursuant to ยง [20-61](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/20-61/) shall be liable for the expenses of his care, treatment or training, and maintenance in a state facility. Any such person shall no longer be financially liable, however, when a cumulative total of 1,826 days of (i) care and treatment or training for the individual in a state facility, (ii) utilization by the individual of services or facilities under the jurisdiction or supervision of any community services board or behavioral health authority, or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii) has passed and payment for or a written agreement to pay the charges for 1,826 days of care and services has been made. Not less than three hours of service per day shall be required to include one day in the cumulative total of 1,826 days of utilization of services under the jurisdiction or supervision of a community services board or behavioral health authority. In order to claim this exemption, the person legally liable for the individual shall produce evidence sufficient to prove eligibility for it.

Such expenses shall not exceed the average cost for the particular type of service rendered and shall be determined no less frequently than annually by the Department in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable to the health care industry. In no event shall recovery be permitted for amounts more than five years past due. A certificate of the Commissioner or his designee shall be prima facie evidence of the actual charges for the particular type of service rendered.

Code 1950, ยง 37-125.1; 1950, p. 917; 1952, c. 492; 1956, c. 493; 1960, c. 386; 1962, c. 80; 1968, c. 477, ยง 37.1-105; 1972, c. 342; 1974, c. 667; 1982, c. 50; 1988, c. 713; 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716); 2012, cc. [476](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0476), [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0507).

