# § 38.2-3522.1 Limits of group accident and sickness insurance.

Group accident and sickness insurance offered to a resident of this Commonwealth under a group accident and sickness insurance policy issued to a group other than one described in § [38.2-3521.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3521.1/) shall be subject to the following requirements:

A. No such group accident and sickness insurance policy shall be delivered in this Commonwealth unless the Commission finds that:

1. The issuance of such group policy is not contrary to Virginia's public policy and is in the best interest of the citizens of this Commonwealth;

2. The issuance of the group policy would result in economies of acquisition or administration; and

3. The benefits are reasonable in relation to the premiums charged.

Insurers filing policy forms seeking approval under the provisions of this subsection shall accompany the forms with a certification, signed by the officer of the company with the responsibility for forms compliance, in which the company certifies that each such policy form will be issued only where the requirements set forth in subdivisions 1 through 3 of this subsection have been met.

B. No such group accident and sickness insurance coverage may be offered in this Commonwealth by an insurer under a policy issued in another state unless this Commonwealth or another state having requirements substantially similar to those contained in subdivisions 1, 2, and 3 of subsection A has made a determination that such requirements have been met.

1. An insurer offering group accident and sickness insurance coverage in this Commonwealth under this subsection shall file a certification, signed by the officer of the company having responsibility for forms compliance, in which the company certifies that all group insurance coverage marketed to residents of this Commonwealth under policies which have not been approved by this Commonwealth will comply with the provisions of § [38.2-3521.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3521.1/) or have met the requirements set forth in subdivisions A 1 through A 3 of this section, and which clearly demonstrates that the substantially similar requirements of the state in which the contract will be issued have been met. The certification shall be accompanied by documentation from such state, evidencing the determination that such requirements have been met.

2. An insurer offering group accident and sickness insurance in this Commonwealth under this subsection that is unable to provide the documentation required in subdivision 1 of this subsection shall be required to file policy forms consistent with requirements in § [38.2-316](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-316/) which are imposed on policies issued in Virginia. The policy shall be required to be approved as meeting all requirements of this title prior to its being offered to residents of this Commonwealth.

C. The premium for the policy shall be paid either from the policyholder's funds or from funds contributed by the covered persons, or from both.

D. An insurer may exclude or limit the coverage on any person as to whom evidence of individual insurability is not satisfactory to the insurer, except as otherwise prohibited in this title.

E. The provisions of this section shall not apply in any instance in which the provisions of this section are inconsistent or in conflict with a provision of Article 6 (§ [38.2-3438](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3438/) et seq.) of Chapter 34.

1998, c. [154](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0154); 2013, c. [751](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0751).

