# ยง 38.2-4231 Registration of nonstock corporations that are members of holding company system.

A. Each nonstock corporation licensed under this chapter that is a member of a holding company system shall register with the Commission. Any nonstock corporation subject to registration under this section shall register within fifteen days after it becomes subject to registration, unless the Commission extends the time for registration for good cause shown.

B. 1. This section shall not apply to:

a. Any foreign nonstock corporation subject to disclosure requirements and standards adopted by statute or regulation in the jurisdiction of its domicile that are substantially similar to those contained in this section;

b. Any nonstock corporation licensed under this chapter, information, or transaction if and to the extent that the Commission exempts the same from this section; or

c. Any transaction involving less than one-sixth of one percent of admitted assets or one percent of surplus as of the immediately preceding December 31, whichever is less.

2. Any nonstock corporation licensed under this chapter that is a member of a holding company system but not subject to registration under this section may be required by the Commission to furnish a copy of the registration statement, or other information filed by the nonstock corporation, with the regulatory authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction.

C. Each nonstock corporation subject to registration under this section shall file a registration statement on a form provided by the Commission. Such statement shall contain current information on:

1. The capital structure, general financial condition, ownership, and management of the nonstock corporation and any person controlling the nonstock corporation;

2. The identity of every member of the insurance holding company system;

3. The following agreements in force, continuing relationships and transactions currently outstanding between the nonstock corporation and its affiliates:

a. Loans or extensions of credit, other investments, or purchases, sales or exchanges of securities of the affiliates by the nonstock corporation or of the nonstock corporation by its affiliates;

b. Purchases, sales, renting or leasing arrangements, or exchanges of assets;

c. Guarantees or undertakings for the benefit of an affiliate that result in an actual contingent exposure of the nonstock corporation's assets to liability;

d. All management and service contracts and all cost-sharing arrangements;

e. Reinsurance agreements or other risk-sharing arrangements;

f. Transactions not in the ordinary course of business; and

4. Other matters relating to transactions between a registered nonstock corporation and any affiliates which may be included from time to time in any registration forms adopted or approved by the Commission.

D. Each registered nonstock corporation shall report all additional transactions with affiliates and any changes in previously reported transactions with affiliates on amendment forms provided by the Commission. Each nonstock corporation shall make its report within fifteen days after the end of the month in which it learns of each additional transaction or change in a transaction. Each registered nonstock corporation shall also keep current the information required by subsection C of this section by filing an amendment to its registration statement within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the ultimate controlling person of the holding company system.

E. The Commission shall terminate the registration of any nonstock corporation that demonstrates it no longer is a member of a holding company system.

F. The Commission may require or allow two or more affiliated nonstock corporations subject to registration under this section to file a consolidated registration statement or consolidated reports amending their consolidated registration statement or their individual registration statements.

G. The Commission may allow a nonstock corporation which is licensed under this chapter and which is part of a holding company system, to register on behalf of any affiliated nonstock corporation required to register under subsection A of this section and to file all information and material required to be filed under this section.

H. Any person may file with the Commission a disclaimer of affiliation with any licensed nonstock corporation. The disclaimer shall fully disclose all relationships and bases for affiliation between the person and the nonstock corporation as well as the basis for disclaiming the affiliation. After a disclaimer has been filed, the nonstock corporation shall be relieved of any registration or reporting requirements under this section that may arise out of the nonstock corporation's relationship with the person unless and until the Commission disallows the disclaimer. The Commission shall disallow the disclaimer only after giving all interested parties notice and opportunity to be heard. Any disallowance shall be supported by specific findings of fact.

1989, c. 606; 1992, c. 588.

