# ยง 38.2-1317.2 Market analyses confidential.

A. All market analyses concerning companies or insurance transactions that are obtained by the Commission from the NAIC, including information generated by any NAIC databases developed for use by regulators, and all market analyses generated by the Commission based on documents or information submitted to the Commission by a company or person, including its officers, directors, and agents, shall receive confidential treatment by the Commission, shall not be subject to subpoena, and are not public records. All working papers, recorded information, documents and copies thereof produced by, obtained by, or disclosed to the Commission or any other person in the course of a market analysis or market conduct action shall receive confidential treatment by the Commission, shall not be subject to subpoena, and are not public records. Any such disclosure to the Commission shall not constitute a waiver of confidentiality of any such documents or information.

B. Notwithstanding other provisions to the contrary, nothing shall prevent or be construed as prohibiting the Commission from disclosing otherwise confidential information, administrative or judicial orders, or the content of any analysis or any matter related thereto, at any time to (i) a regulatory official of any state or country; (ii) the NAIC, its affiliate or its subsidiary; or (iii) a law-enforcement authority of any state or country, provided that those officials are required under their law to maintain its confidentiality. Any such disclosure by the Commission shall not constitute a waiver of confidentiality of any such documents or information.

C. Documents or information received in the course of a market analysis or market conduct action from the NAIC, a law-enforcement official of any state or country, or regulatory officials of any state or country that are confidential in those jurisdictions shall receive confidential treatment by the Commission, shall not be subject to subpoena, and are not public records.

D. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Commission from releasing a report containing aggregated findings.

2008, c. [249](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0249).

