# § 38.2-3718 Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter:

"Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.

"Creditor" means the lender of money or vendor or lessor of goods, services, or property, rights or privileges, for which payment is arranged through a credit transaction, or any successor to the right, title or interest of any such lender, vendor, or lessor and an affiliate, associate or subsidiary of any of them or any other person in any way associated with them.

"Credit transaction" means any transaction by the terms of which the repayment of money loaned or loan commitment made, or payment for goods, services or properties sold or leased is to be made at a future date or dates.

"Critical period coverage" means a death benefit or an accident and sickness insurance benefit in which the benefit is equal to a specified number of monthly payments or the remaining payments on the loan, whichever is less.

"Debtor" means a borrower of money or a purchaser or lessee of goods, services, property, rights or privileges for which payment is arranged through a credit transaction.

"Form" means any policy, contract, rider, endorsement, amendment, certificate, application, enrollment request, or notice of proposed insurance pertaining to credit life insurance or credit accident and sickness insurance. For the purpose of administering §§ [38.2-3726](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3726/), [38.2-3727](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3727/) and [38.2-3730](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3730/), (i) the earned premiums and incurred claims of all credit accident and sickness insurance forms issued in this Commonwealth with the same waiting period will be combined to determine the loss ratio in this Commonwealth regardless of differences in the contractual terms of each form and, (ii) the earned premiums and incurred claims of all credit life insurance forms issued in this Commonwealth will be combined to determine the loss ratio in this Commonwealth regardless of differences in the contractual terms or coverage types.

"Indebtedness" means the total amount payable by a debtor to a creditor in connection with a loan or other credit transaction.

"Open-end credit" means credit extended under an agreement in which:

1. The creditor reasonably contemplates repeated transactions;

2. The creditor imposes a finance charge from time to time on an outstanding unpaid balance; and

3. The amount of credit that may be extended to the debtor during the term of the agreement (up to any limit set by the creditor) is generally made available to the extent that any outstanding balance is repaid.

"Truncated coverage" means a credit life insurance benefit or a credit accident and sickness insurance benefit with a term of insurance coverage that is less than the term of the loan.

1960, c. 67, § 38.1-482.2; 1982, c. 223, § 38.2-3701; 1986, c. 562; 1992, c. 586.

