# § 38.2-1842 Requirement to report to Commission.

A. Each licensed insurance consultant shall report within 30 calendar days to the Commission any change in his residence address, email address, or name.

B. In addition to the requirements of §§ [59.1-69](/vacode/59.1-69/) and [59.1-70](/vacode/59.1-70/), any individual or business entity licensed as an insurance consultant in the Commonwealth and operating under an assumed or fictitious name shall notify the Commission, at the earlier of the time the application for an insurance consultant license is filed or within 30 calendar days from the date the assumed or fictitious name is adopted, setting forth the name under which the insurance consultant intends to operate in Virginia. The Commission shall also be notified within 30 calendar days from the date of cessation of the use of such assumed or fictitious name.

C. Each licensed insurance consultant convicted of a felony shall report within 30 calendar days to the Commission the facts and circumstances regarding the criminal conviction.

D. Each licensed insurance consultant shall report to the Commission within 30 calendar days of the final disposition of the matter any administrative action taken against him in another jurisdiction or by another governmental agency in the Commonwealth. Such report shall include a copy of the order, consent to order or other relevant legal documents.

E. The license authority of any licensed resident insurance consultant shall terminate immediately when such insurance consultant has moved his residence from the Commonwealth, whether or not the Commission has been notified of such move.

1985, c. 3, § 38.1-327.67; 1986, c. 562; 1987, cc. 521, 678; 1999, c. [59](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0059); 2001, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706); 2019, c. [675](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0675).

