# ยง 38.2-3568 External review reporting requirements.

A. An independent review organization shall maintain written records, in the aggregate by state and by health carrier, on all external review requests and external reviews conducted during each calendar year. Each independent review organization shall submit a report to the Commission. The report shall be submitted to the Commission by April 1 of the following calendar year. The report shall include in the aggregate by state, and for each health carrier: the total number of requests for external review; the number of requests for external review resolved and, of those resolved, the number upholding the adverse determination or final adverse determination, and the number reversing the adverse determination or final adverse determination; the average length of time for resolution; a summary of the types of coverages or cases for which an external review was sought; the number of external reviews that were terminated as the result of a reconsideration by the health carrier; and any other information the Commission may request or require. The independent review organization shall retain required written records for at least three years.

B. Each health carrier shall maintain written records, in the aggregate by state and for each type of health benefit plan offered, on all requests for external review. Each health carrier shall submit a report to the Commission. The report shall be submitted to the Commission by April 1 of the following calendar year. The report shall include in the aggregate by state, and by type of health benefit plan: the total number of requests for external review, the number of requests determined eligible for external review, the number of external reviews completed, and any other information the Commission may request or require. The health carrier shall retain required written record for at least three years.

2011, c. [788](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0788).

