# § 38.2-4208 Nonstock corporation not required to act as agent.

A. A nonstock corporation may offer or administer a plan without being required to act as an agent for providers of health care services.

B. A nonstock corporation applying for its initial license pursuant to this chapter in order to offer or administer a plan must elect in its application whether to act (i) as agent for providers of health care services, in which case §§ [38.2-4210](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4210/) and [38.2-4211](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4211/) shall apply, or (ii) as a nonagent, in which case the provisions of subsection D of this section shall apply.

C. A nonstock corporation operating a plan pursuant to §§ [38.2-4202](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4202/), [38.2-4203](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4203/), [38.2-4204](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4204/) or this section prior to June 30, 1985, and any successor nonstock corporation shall continue to operate as either an agent or nonagent nonstock corporation, in accordance with the manner in which it was operating as of that date, provided that it may petition the Commission to change its status as an agent or nonagent nonstock corporation, and if it does so, it shall give notice of the petition to all interested parties. The Commission shall conduct a hearing on the petition if requested by any interested party. A nonstock corporation seeking to change its status shall make application to the Commission within ninety days following the end of any calendar year. A change in status shall only be effective as to subscriber contracts issued or renewed on and after the date of a change in status. The Commission shall enter an order in response to the nonstock corporation's petition.

D. If any nonstock corporation offers or administers a plan without acting as an agent for providers of health care services, the Commission may elect to (i) require the nonstock corporation to maintain its contingency reserves above a minimum level set by the Commission, or (ii) subject the nonstock corporation, notwithstanding the provisions of § [38.2-1700](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1700/), to the requirements of Chapter 17 of this title, or (iii) both. The minimum level for contingency reserves shall not exceed forty-five days of the anticipated operating expenses and incurred claims expense generated from subscription contracts issued by the nonstock corporation, and shall be computed as the Commission requires.

Code 1950, § 32-195.5:1; 1972, c. 429, § 38.1-816; 1974, c. 54; 1979, c. 721; 1980, c. 682; 1982, c. 129; 1983, c. 464, § 38.1-813.4; 1985, c. 233; 1986, c. 562; 1988, c. 185.

