# ยง 38.2-5803 Disclosures and representations to enrollees.

A. The following shall be provided to the MCHIP's covered persons at the time of enrollment or at the time the contract or evidence of coverage is issued and shall be made available upon request or at least annually:

1. A list of the names and locations of all affiliated providers. Such list may be made available in a form other than a printed document, provided the purchaser or existing enrollee is given the means to request and receive a printed copy of such list.

2. A description of the service area or areas within which the MCHIP shall provide health care services.

3. A description of the method of resolving complaints of covered persons, including a description of any arbitration procedure if complaints may be resolved through a specified arbitration agreement.

4. Notice that the MCHIP is subject to regulation in the Commonwealth by both the State Corporation Commission Bureau of Insurance pursuant to Title 38.2 and the Virginia Department of Health pursuant to Title 32.1.

5. A prominent notice included within the evidence of coverage, providing substantially the following: "If you have any questions regarding an appeal or grievance concerning the health care services that you have been provided that have not been satisfactorily addressed by your plan, you may contact the Office of the Managed Care Ombudsman for assistance." Such notice shall also provide the toll-free telephone number, mailing address, and electronic mail address of the Office of the Managed Care Ombudsman. This section shall not apply to evidences of coverage for enrollees in the plans administered by the Department of Medical Assistance Services that provide benefits pursuant to Title XIX or Title XXI of the Social Security Act, as amended.

B. The following shall apply to MCHIPs that require a covered person to select a primary care physician with respect to the offer of basic health care services by the MCHIP:

1. At the time of enrollment each covered person shall have the right to select a primary care physician from among the health carrier's affiliated primary care physicians for the MCHIP, subject to availability.

2. Any covered person who is dissatisfied with his primary care physician shall have the right to select another primary care physician from among the affiliated primary care physicians, subject to availability. The health carrier may impose a reasonable waiting period for this transfer.

1998, c. [891](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0891); 2000, c. [922](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0922); 2004, c. [715](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0715); 2006, c. [866](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0866).

