# ยง 38.2-2804 Plan of operation.

A. Within forty-five days of the date the Commission makes a determination to activate a joint underwriting association pursuant to subsection A of ยง [38.2-2801](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2801/), the directors of the association shall submit to the Commission for review a proposed plan of operation consistent with this chapter.

B. The plan of operation shall provide for economic, fair and nondiscriminatory administration and for the prompt and efficient provision of medical malpractice insurance. The plan shall contain other provisions including (i) preliminary assessment of all members for initial expenses necessary to commence operations, (ii) establishment of necessary facilities, (iii) management of the association, (iv) assessment of members to defray losses and expenses, (v) reasonable and objective minimum underwriting standards developed in consultation with the medical and hospital advisory committees provided for in ยง [38.2-2805](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2805/), (vi) acceptance and cession of reinsurance, (vii) appointment of servicing carriers or other servicing arrangements, (viii) the establishment of premium payment plans, (ix) procedures for determining amounts of insurance to be provided by the association, (x) procedures for the recoupment of preliminary assessments and other assessments of members as authorized by this chapter, and (xi) any other matters necessary for the efficient and equitable operation and termination of the association.

C. The plan of operation shall be subject to approval by the Commission after consultation with the members of the association and representatives of interested individuals and organizations. If the Commission disapproves all or any part of the proposed plan of operation, the directors shall within fifteen days submit for review an appropriate revised plan of operation. If the directors fail to do so, the Commission shall promulgate a plan of operation. The plan of operation approved or promulgated by the Commission shall become effective and operational upon order of the Commission.

D. Amendments to the plan of operation may be made by the directors of the association, subject to the approval of the Commission.

1976, c. 85, ยง 38.1-778; 1980, c. 286; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 554; 1988, c. 341.

