# § 38.2-1706 Plan of operation.

A. 1. The Association's plan of operation approved under former § [38.1-482.24](/vacode/38.1-482.24/) shall remain in effect until modified in accordance with this subsection. The Association shall from time to time submit to the Commission any amendments to the plan of operation necessary or suitable to assure the fair, reasonable, and equitable administration of the Association. Any amendments to the plan of operation shall become effective upon the Commission's written approval or unless they have not been disapproved within 60 days.

2. If at any time the Association fails to submit suitable amendments to the plan, the Commission shall, after notice and hearing, adopt and promulgate such reasonable rules as are necessary or advisable to effectuate the provisions of this chapter. The rules shall continue in force until modified by the Commission or superseded by an amended plan submitted by the Association and approved by the Commission.

B. All member insurers shall comply with the plan of operation.

C. The plan of operation shall, in addition to requirements enumerated elsewhere in this chapter:

1. Establish procedures for handling assets of the Association;

2. Establish the amount and method of reimbursing members of the board of directors under § [38.2-1703](/vacode/38.2-1703/);

3. Establish regular places and times for meetings, including telephone conference calls, of the board of directors;

4. Establish procedures for records to be kept of all financial transactions of the Association, its agents, and the board of directors;

5. Establish the procedures whereby selections for the board of directors will be made and submitted to the Commission;

6. Establish any additional procedures for assessments under § [38.2-1705](/vacode/38.2-1705/);

7. Establish a plan for equitable distribution of refunds to member insurers;

8. Contain additional provisions necessary or proper for the execution of the powers and duties of the Association;

9. Establish procedures whereby a director may be removed for cause, including in the case where a member insurer director becomes an impaired or insolvent insurer; and

10. Require the board of directors to establish a policy and procedures for addressing conflicts of interests.

D. The plan of operation may provide that any or all powers and duties of the Association, except those under subdivision L 3 of § [38.2-1704](/vacode/38.2-1704/) and § [38.2-1705](/vacode/38.2-1705/), are delegated to a corporation, association, or other organization that performs or will perform functions similar to those of this Association, or its equivalent, in two or more states. Such a corporation, association, or organization shall be reimbursed for any payments made on behalf of the Association and shall be paid for its performance of any function of the Association. A delegation under this subsection shall take effect only with the approval of both the board of directors and the Commission, and may be made only to a corporation, association, or organization that extends protection not substantially less favorable and effective than that provided by this chapter.

1976, c. 330, § 38.1-482.24; 1986, c. 562; 2010, c. [510](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0510); 2018, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0706).

