# § 38.2-4230 Definitions.

As used in this article:

"Affiliate" of a specific person or a person "affiliated" with a specific person means a person that directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the person specified.

"Control," including the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with," means direct or indirect possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person through (i) the ownership of voting securities, (ii) by contract other than a commercial contract for goods or nonmanagement services, or (iii) otherwise, unless the power is the result of an official position with or corporate office held by the person. Control shall be presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing collectively ten percent or more of the voting securities of any other person. This presumption may be rebutted by a showing made in the manner provided by subsection H of § [38.2-4231](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4231/) that control does not exist. After giving all interested persons notice and opportunity to be heard and making specific findings to support its determination, the Commission may determine that control exists, notwithstanding the absence of a presumption to that effect.

"Holding company system" means two or more affiliated persons, one or more of which is a nonstock corporation licensed under this chapter.

"Surplus" means the excess of total admitted assets over the liabilities of a nonstock corporation licensed under this chapter, and shall include any contingency reserves maintained pursuant to § [38.2-4208](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4208/) and any voluntary reserves.

"Transaction" means any (i) sale, purchase, exchange, renting or leasing arrangement, loan or extension of credit, arrangement for the assumption, extension or renewal of any obligation or liability, guaranty or surety arrangement, or investment; (ii) dividend or distribution of cash or property; (iii) reinsurance treaty or risk-sharing arrangement; (iv) management contract, service contract or cost-sharing arrangement; or (v) other arrangement, relationship or dealings that the Commission by order, rule or regulation determines to be a transaction contemplated by this article. A transaction shall not include any transaction which the Commission by rule or regulation exempts as not being material for the purpose of §§ [38.2-4231](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4231/) and [38.2-4233](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4233/). Any series of transactions occurring within a twelve-month period that are sufficiently similar in nature as to be reasonably construed as a single transaction and that in the aggregate exceed any minimum set forth in §§ [38.2-4231](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4231/) and [38.2-4233](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4233/) shall be deemed a transaction subject to the provisions of such sections.

"Voting security" means any security that enables the owner to vote for the election of directors. Voting security includes any security convertible into or evidencing a right to acquire a voting security.

1989, c. 606; 1992, c. 588.

