# § 38.2-4904.1 Escrow of entrance fee to continuing care providers and others.

A. A provider shall maintain in escrow with a bank or trust company, or other escrow agent approved by the Commission, all entrance fees or portions thereof in excess of $1,000 per person received by the provider prior to the date the resident is permitted to occupy a unit in the facility. Funds or assets deposited therein shall be kept and maintained in an account separate and apart from the provider's business accounts. For the purposes of this section only, the term "entrance fee" shall include within its meaning any advanced payment or series of advanced payments totaling $5,000 or more and the term "provider" shall include any person or entity that would be included in the definition thereof in § [38.2-4900](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4900/) if such fee of $5,000 or more constituted an entrance fee for the purposes of the definition of "continuing care" in § [38.2-4900](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4900/).

B. All funds or assets deposited in the escrow account shall remain the property of the prospective resident until released to the provider in accordance with this section. The funds or assets shall not be subject to any liens, judgments, garnishments or creditor's claims against the provider or facility. The escrow agreement may provide that charges by the escrow agent may be deducted from the funds or assets if such provision is disclosed in the disclosure statement.

C. All funds or assets deposited in escrow pursuant to this section shall be released to the provider when the provider presents to the escrow agent evidence that a unit has been occupied by the resident or a unit of the type reserved is available for immediate occupancy by the resident or prospective resident on whose behalf the fee was received.

D. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, all funds or assets deposited in escrow pursuant to this section shall be released according to the terms of the escrow agreement to the prospective resident from whom it was received (i) if such funds or assets have not been released within three years after placement in escrow or within three years after construction has started, whichever is later (but in any event within six years after placement in escrow unless specifically approved by the Commission), or within such longer period as determined appropriate by the Commission in writing, (ii) if the prospective resident dies before occupying a unit, (iii) if the construction of a facility, not yet operating is stopped indefinitely before the facility is completed or (iv) upon rescission of the contract pursuant to provisions in the contract or in this chapter. If construction of the unit to be reserved has not started within three years after the deposit of funds or assets into an escrow account, the prospective resident may require the return of such funds or assets unless the Commission determines that construction will begin in a reasonable period of time and the extension of such three-year period is appropriate. However, funds or assets subject to release under item (i) of this subsection or under subsection C of this section may be held in escrow for an additional period at the mutual consent of the provider and the prospective resident; however, the prospective resident may consent to such additional period only after his deposit has been held in escrow for at least two years. Item (i) above shall not apply if fees are refundable within thirty days of request for refund.

E. Unless otherwise specified in the escrow agreement, funds or assets in an escrow account pursuant to this section may be held in the form received or if invested shall be invested in instruments authorized for the investment of public funds as set forth in Chapter 45 (§ [2.2-4500](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4500/) et seq.) of Title 2.2 and not in default as to principal or interest.

F. This section shall not apply to entrance fees for initial occupancy of units under construction on June 30, 1986.

G. This section shall not apply to application or reservation fees whether or not such fees are considered to be a portion of the entrance fee, provided such application or reservation fees are not in excess of $1,000 per person.

1986, c. 598, § 38.1-959.1.

