# § 38.2-3725 Policy forms to be filed with Commission; approval or disapproval by Commission.

A. No form shall be delivered or issued for delivery in this Commonwealth until a copy of each form has been filed with and approved by the Commission.

B. If a group policy of credit life or credit accident and sickness insurance is delivered in another state, the insurer shall be required to file the group certificate, application or enrollment request, and notice of proposed insurance delivered or issued for delivery in this state for approval. These forms shall comply with § [38.2-3724](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3724/), with the exception of subsection D and § [38.2-3737](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3737/). The premium rates shall comply with those established in this chapter or it must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commission that the rates are actuarially equivalent to those required by §§ [38.2-3726](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3726/) and [38.2-3727](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3727/) if the coverage differs from that required in Virginia. In no case shall the premiums exceed those set by the Commission in §§ [38.2-3726](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3726/) and [38.2-3727](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3727/), as amended by § [38.2-3730](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3730/).

C. The Commission shall disapprove or withdraw approval previously given to any form if the Commission determines that:

1. It does not comply with the laws of this Commonwealth;

2. It contains any provision or has any title, heading, backing or other indication of the contents of any or all of its provisions which encourage misrepresentation or are unjust, unfair, misleading, deceptive or contrary to the public policy of this Commonwealth; or

3. The premium rates or charges are not reasonable in relation to the benefits provided.

D. The benefits provided by any credit life insurance form shall be considered reasonable in relation to the premium charged provided that the rate does not exceed the current prima facie rate set by the Commission. The prima facie rate that shall be effective January 1, 1993, shall be that set forth in § [38.2-3726](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3726/). Thereafter, effective January 1, 1995, the Commission shall, on a triennial basis, set forth adjusted prima facie rates that will achieve a sixty percent loss ratio. The methodology used by the Commission in setting the prima facie rates shall be as set forth in § [38.2-3730](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3730/). The prima facie rates shall be provided to insurers no later than September 1 prior to each triennium and shall be effective as to all forms issued on or after January 1 of the following triennium.

E. The benefits provided by any credit accident and sickness insurance form shall be considered reasonable in relation to the premium charged provided that the rate does not exceed the current prima facie rates set by the Commission. The Commission shall set forth adjusted prima facie rates that will achieve a fifty percent loss ratio as of January 1, 1993, and adjusted prima facie rates that will achieve a sixty percent loss ratio as of January 1, 1995. Thereafter, the Commission shall, on a triennial basis, set forth adjusted prima facie rates that will achieve a sixty percent loss ratio. The methodology used by the Commission in setting the prima facie rates shall be as set forth in § [38.2-3730](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3730/). The prima facie rates shall be provided to insurers no later than September 1, 1992, for the rates to be effective January 1, 1993; September 1, 1994, for the rates to be effective January 1, 1995; and September 1 prior to each triennium thereafter, and shall be effective as to all forms issued on or after such January 1.

F. If necessary to assure availability of credit insurance, the Commission may consider other factors in order to provide a fair return to insurers. These other factors may include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) actual and expected loss experience; (ii) general and administrative expenses; (iii) loss settlement and adjustment expenses; (iv) reasonable creditor compensation; (v) investment income; (vi) the manner in which premiums are charged; (vii) other acquisition costs, reserves, taxes, regulatory license fees and fund assessments; and (viii) other relevant data consistent with generally accepted actuarial standards.

G. The Commission shall, within thirty days after the filing of any form requiring approval, notify the insurer filing the form of the form's approval or disapproval. If a form is disapproved, the Commission shall also notify the insurer of its reasons for disapproval. The Commission may extend the period within which it shall indicate its approval or disapproval of a form by thirty days. Any form received but not approved or disapproved by the Commission shall be deemed approved at the expiration of the thirty days, or sixty days if the period is extended. No insurer shall use a form deemed approved under the provisions of this section until the insurer has filed with the Commission a written notice of its intent to use the form together with a copy of the form and the original transmittal letter thereof. The notice shall be filed in the offices of the Commission at least ten days prior to the insurer's use of the form.

H. If the Commission proposes to withdraw approval previously given to any form, it shall notify the insurer in writing not less than thirty days prior to the proposed effective date of withdrawal and give its reasons for withdrawal. No insurer shall issue such forms or use them after the effective date of withdrawal, except as provided in subsection I of this section.

I. Any insurer aggrieved by the disapproval or withdrawal of approval of any form may proceed as indicated in § [38.2-1926](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1926/).

1982, c. 223, § 38.1-482.7:1; 1986, c. 562, § 38.2-3710; 1992, c. 586; 1999, c. [586](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0586).

