# ยง 38.2-6401 Requirements for offering guaranteed asset protection waivers.

A. Guaranteed asset protection waivers may be offered, sold, or provided to borrowers in the Commonwealth in compliance with this chapter.

B. GAP waivers may, at the option of the creditor, be sold for a single payment or may be offered with a monthly or periodic payment option.

C. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any cost to the borrower for a GAP waiver entered into in compliance with the federal Truth in Lending Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง 1601 et seq., and its implementing regulations, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be separately stated and shall not be considered a finance charge or interest.

D. A retail seller shall insure its GAP waiver obligations under a contractual liability or other insurance policy issued by an insurer. A creditor, other than a retail seller, may insure its GAP waiver obligations under a contractual liability policy or other policy issued by an insurer as provided in ยง [38.2-6402](/vacode/38.2-6402/). Any such insurance policy may be directly obtained by a creditor or retail seller or may be procured by an administrator to cover a creditor's or retail seller's obligations. However, retail sellers that are lessors on motor vehicles are not required to insure obligations related to GAP waivers on the leased vehicles.

E. The GAP waiver shall remain a part of the finance agreement upon the assignment, sale, or transfer of the finance agreement by the creditor.

F. Neither the extension of credit, the term of credit, nor the term of the related motor vehicle sale or lease may be conditioned upon the purchase of a GAP waiver.

G. Any creditor that offers a GAP waiver shall report the sale of GAP waivers and shall forward funds received on all GAP waivers to the designated party, if any, as prescribed in any applicable administrative services agreement, contractual liability policy, other insurance policy, or other specified program documents.

H. Funds received or held by a creditor or administrator and belonging to an insurer, creditor, or administrator pursuant to the terms of a written agreement shall be held by the creditor or administrator in a fiduciary capacity.

2019, cc. [799](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0799), [800](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0800).

