# § 38.2-4111 Amendments to laws.

A. A domestic society may amend its laws in accordance with the provisions of those laws by action of its supreme governing body at any regular or special meeting or, if its laws so provide, by referendum. Such referendum may be held in accordance with the provisions of its laws by the vote of the voting members of the society, by the vote of delegates or representatives of voting members, or by the vote of local lodges. A society may provide for voting by mail. No amendment submitted for adoption by referendum shall be adopted unless, within six months from the date of submission of the amendment, a majority of the members voting shall have signified their consent to such amendment by one of the methods herein specified.

B. No amendment to the laws of any domestic society shall take effect unless filed with the Commission.

C. Within ninety days from the filing specified in subsection B of this section, all such amendments, or a synopsis of the amendments, shall be furnished to all members of the society either by mail or by publication in full in the official publication of the society. The affidavit of any officer of the society or of anyone authorized by it to mail any amendments or synopsis of the amendments, stating facts which show that same have been duly addressed and mailed, shall be prima facie evidence that such amendments or their synopsis have been furnished the addressee.

D. At the request of the Commissioner, a foreign or alien society authorized to do business in this Commonwealth shall file with the Commissioner a duly certified copy of all amendments of, or additions to, its laws.

E. Printed copies of the laws as amended, certified by the secretary or corresponding officer of the society, shall be prima facie evidence of their legal adoption.

Code 1950, §§ 38-277, 38-279, 38.1-593, 38.1-595; 1952, c. 317, §§ 38.1-638.25, 38.1-638.27; 1968, c. 654; 1986, c. 562; 2002, c. [147](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0147).

