# ยง 38.2-1921.1 Professional employer organization workers' compensation rating.

A. Whenever any professional employer organization enters into an agreement with a client company to provide professional employer services, the experience rating of the professional employer organization shall be used for voluntary market workers' compensation insurance premium computation purposes with respect to such coemployees. In the event that the agreement between a client company and a professional employer organization is terminated, the coemployees shall become solely the employees of the former client company. If the coemployees have been covered as employees of the professional employer organization under a voluntary market workers' compensation insurance policy for a period of three consecutive years or more, the workers' compensation insurance premium applicable to the policy of the former client company shall be based upon the rating of the professional employer organization until the former client employer has developed sufficient experience to be rated on its own or no longer qualifies for experience rating. If the coemployees have been covered as employees of the professional employer organization for a period of less than three consecutive years, the workers' compensation insurance premium applicable to the policy of the former client company shall be based upon the experience of the former client company which reflects its experience during the experience period specified by the approved experience rating plan, including, if available, experience incurred for coemployees under the professional employer services agreement.

B. Insurers may conduct periodic audits of any professional employer organization, including payrolls, operations and records as related to individual client company operations in order to ensure that the appropriate premium is charged for workers' compensation insurance coverage. Such audits may include audits of the client company in order to verify payroll, losses and classifications, and inspections of the premises where the coemployees work.

C. A professional employer organization may aggregate its coemployees under a single employer plan for the purpose of providing employee benefits provided that the professional employer organization meets the regulatory licensure and filing requirements promulgated by the Commission for fully insured multiple employer welfare arrangements. The following information required to be filed shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public: (i) all information related to the names and addresses of employers participating in the plan and (ii) all information pertaining to the adequacy of the plan's level of reserves and contributions; however, nothing herein shall (i) prevent the Commission from using such information in any regulatory proceeding or (ii) be interpreted to prohibit or limit the production of documents containing such information from the professional employer organization pursuant to an otherwise lawful subpoena issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.

D. The Commission may promulgate regulations as it deems necessary for the administration of this section.

2000, cc. [624](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0624), [718](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0718).

