# ยง 38.2-4613 Unearned premium reserve to be held and administered for benefit of policyholders.

A. The reserve required under ยง [38.2-4610.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4610.1/) shall be for the security of policyholders of the title insurance company as provided in this section.

B. If an order of rehabilitation or liquidation of any title insurance company is entered by a court of competent jurisdiction, the rehabilitator or receiver, with the approval of the court, or the Commission if it has been directed to rehabilitate or liquidate the title insurance company under the provisions of Chapter 15 of this title, may (i) use assets equal to the unearned premium reserve to pay any claims for losses sustained by policyholders prior to the time reinsurance is effected to the extent that those losses are in excess of the loss or claim reserves available for their payment, (ii) enter into contracts for the reinsurance of the obligations under the outstanding title insurance policies of the company in accordance with their terms and conditions, and (iii) use assets equal to the unearned premium reserve to pay the cost of reinsurance. After the payments authorized by this subsection have been made, assets equal to any balance in the unearned premium reserve shall become general assets of the company.

C. If no such contract of reinsurance is effected, assets equal to the unearned premium reserve may be applied by the rehabilitator or receiver with the approval of the court, or by the Commission, in the following order of preference: (i) all expenses incurred under this section in connection with the receivership or rehabilitation proceedings, (ii) all allowed and unpaid claims for losses sustained by policyholders pending at the time fixed by the court or the Commission for the filing of claims, and (iii) all allowed claims for losses asserted within twenty years from the date of the entry of the order of rehabilitation or liquidation, which claims shall be paid in the order of the date of their allowance by the court or the Commission. Assets equal to any balance in the unearned premium reserve after payment of all allowed claims shall become general assets of the company. All title records that the rehabilitator, or the receiver, or the Commission if appointed to rehabilitate or liquidate the company, deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this section shall be preserved for twenty years.

D. In proceedings for the rehabilitation or liquidation of a title insurance company that has not been declared insolvent, no assets of the company shall be distributed to its stockholders until all claims allowed in the proceedings have been paid in full. If the proposed distribution is within twenty years from the date of the entry of the order of rehabilitation or liquidation, the distribution may be made if general assets of the title insurance company sufficient to fund the unearned premium reserve to the required amount as of the date of the entry of such order are first transferred to the unearned premium reserve. Upon the expiration of twenty years from the date of the order, assets equal to any balance in the unearned premium reserve after payment of all allowed claims asserted within the twenty-year period shall become general assets of the company.

1952, c. 317, ยง 38.1-733; 1986, cc. 404, 562.

