# § 38.2-4109 Organization of domestic society on or after October 1, 1986.

A. On or after October 1, 1986, seven or more citizens of the United States, a majority of whom are citizens of this Commonwealth, who desire to form a fraternal benefit society, may make, sign and acknowledge before some officer competent to take acknowledgement of deeds, articles of incorporation, which shall state:

1. The proposed corporate name of the society, which shall not so closely resemble the name of any other society or insurer as to be misleading or confusing;

2. The purposes for which it is being formed and the mode in which its corporate powers are to be exercised. Such purposes shall not include more liberal powers than are granted by this chapter;

3. The names and residences of the incorporators and the names, residences and official titles of all officers, trustees, directors, or other persons who are to have and exercise the general control of the management of the affairs and funds of the society for the first year or until the ensuing election at which all such officers shall be elected by the supreme governing body, which election shall be held not later than one year from the date of issuance of the permanent certificate of authority.

B. Such articles of incorporation, duly certified copies of the society's bylaws and rules, copies of all proposed forms of certificates, applications therefor, and circulars to be issued by the society and a bond conditioned upon the return to applicants of the advanced payments if the organization is not completed within one year shall be filed with the Commission, which may require any further information it deems necessary. The bond, with sureties approved by the Commission, shall be not less than $50,000 nor more than $200,000, as required by the Commission. All documents filed are to be in the English language. If the purposes of the society conform to the requirements of this chapter and all provisions of the law have been complied with, the Commission shall so certify, retain, and file the articles of incorporation and furnish the incorporators a preliminary certificate of authority authorizing the society to solicit members as hereinafter provided.

C. No preliminary certificate of authority granted under the provisions of this section shall be valid after one year from its date or after such further period, not exceeding one year, as may be authorized by the Commission upon cause shown, unless the 500 required applicants have been secured and the organization has been duly completed. The articles of incorporation and all other proceedings under those articles shall become void in one year from the date of the preliminary certificate of authority, or at the expiration of the extended period, unless the society has completed its organization and received a certificate of authority to do business.

D. Upon receipt of a preliminary certificate of authority from the Commission, the society may solicit members for the purpose of completing its organization, shall collect from each applicant the amount of not less than one regular monthly premium in accordance with its table of rates, and shall issue to each such applicant a receipt for the amount collected. No society shall incur any liability other than for the return of such advance premium, nor issue any certificate, nor pay, allow, or offer or promise to pay or allow, any benefit to any person until:

1. Actual bona fide applicants for benefits have been secured on not less than 500 applicants, and any necessary evidence of insurability has been furnished to and approved by the society;

2. At least 10 subordinate lodges have been established into which the 500 applicants have been admitted;

3. There has been submitted to the Commission, a list of such applicants, giving their names, addresses, date each was admitted, name and number of the subordinate lodge of which each applicant is a member, amount of benefits to be granted and their premiums; and

4. It has been shown to the Commission, by sworn statement of the treasurer, or corresponding officer of such society, that at least 500 applicants have each paid in cash at least one regular monthly premium, which shall total at least $150,000. Advance premiums shall be held in trust during the period of organization and, if the society has not qualified for a certificate of authority within one year, such premiums shall be returned to the applicants.

E. The Commission may examine and require any further information it deems advisable. Upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that the society has complied with all the provisions of law, the Commissioner shall issue to the society a certificate of authority to that effect and that the society is authorized to do business pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The certificate of authority shall be prima facie evidence of the existence of the society at the date of such certificate. The Commission shall cause a record of such certificate of authority to be made. A certified copy of such record shall have the same effect as the original certificate of authority.

F. Any incorporated society authorized to do business in this Commonwealth at the time this chapter becomes effective shall not be required to reincorporate.

G. The provisions of this section shall not apply in any instance in which the provisions of this section are inconsistent or in conflict with a provision of Article 6 (§ [38.2-3438](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3438/) et seq.) of Chapter 34.

Code 1950, §§ 38-264 through 38-268, 38.1-582 through 38.1-587; 1952, c. 317, §§ 38.1-638.14 through 38.1-638.19; 1968, c. 654; 1975, c. 262; 1986, c. 562; 2013, c. [751](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0751).

