# § 38.2-2217 Reduction in rates for certain persons who attend mature driver motor vehicle crash prevention courses and driver improvement clinics.

A. Any schedule of rates, rate classifications or rating plans for motor vehicle insurance as defined in § [38.2-2212](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2212/) filed with the Commission shall provide for an appropriate reduction in premium charges for those insured persons who are fifty-five years of age and older and who qualify as provided in this subsection. Only those insured persons who have voluntarily and successfully completed a mature driver motor vehicle crash prevention course approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles shall qualify for a three-year period after the completion of the course for the reduction in rates. No reduction in premiums shall be allowed for a self-instructed course or for any course that does not provide actual classroom instruction for a minimum number of hours as determined by the Department of Motor Vehicles. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, a course sponsor that has been approved by the Department for the classroom delivery of a mature driver motor vehicle crash prevention course may also be approved to deliver that same substantive course through a secure computer-based medium provided via the Internet or other electronic means that have been approved by the Department, provided that the sponsor has acceptable security features designed to assure that the certificates issued pursuant to subsection E are issued to the same person who took the course and passed the examination related to the course. No person assigned by the court to attend a mature driver motor vehicle crash prevention course shall be eligible for such reduction in premium charges.

B. Any schedule of rates, rate classifications or rating plans for motor vehicle insurance as defined in § [38.2-2212](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2212/) filed with the Commission may provide for an appropriate reduction in premium charges for a two-year period for those insured persons who are fifty-four years of age or younger and who have satisfactorily completed a driver improvement clinic approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles, as set forth in Article 19 (§ [46.2-489](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-489/) et seq.) of Chapter 3 of Title 46.2. No person assigned by the courts or notified by the Department of Motor Vehicles to attend a driver improvement clinic shall be eligible for such reduction in premium charges.

C. The Commission and the Department of Motor Vehicles may promulgate rules and regulations which will assist them in carrying out the provisions of this section.

D. All insurers writing motor vehicle insurance in Virginia as defined in § [38.2-2212](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2212/) shall allow an appropriate reduction in premium charges to all eligible persons upon successfully completing an approved crash prevention course through actual classroom instruction subject to the provisions of subsection A. Such insurers may allow an appropriate reduction in premium charges to all eligible persons upon successfully completing an approved crash prevention course via the Internet or other electronic means subject to the provisions of subsection A.

E. Upon successfully completing the approved course, the course's sponsor shall issue to each participant a certificate approved by the Department of Motor Vehicles which shall be evidence of satisfactory completion of either a mature driver motor vehicle crash prevention course or a driver improvement clinic for the reduction in premium charges. Participants shall be required to provide satisfactory evidence to the insurance provider that the course or clinic was completed in accordance with this section.

F. Each participant in a mature driver motor vehicle crash prevention course shall take an approved course every three years in order to continue to be eligible for the reduction in premium charges. Each voluntary participant in a driver improvement clinic shall take an approved course every two years in order to continue to be eligible for the reduction in premium charges, if any.

G. Nothing in this section prevents an insurer from offering appropriately reduced rates based solely on age.

1984, c. 686, § 38.1-381.10; 1986, c. 562; 1995, c. [226](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0226); 2009, cc. [357](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0357), [545](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0545); 2014, c. [282](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0282).

