# ยง 38.2-3521.2 Blanket accident and sickness insurance.

A. As used in this section, "blanket insurance" means that form of limited accident and sickness insurance defined as an "excepted benefit" under ยง [38.2-3431](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3431/), providing coverage for specified circumstances and specific classes of persons defined in a policy issued to a master policyholder and not by specifically naming the persons covered, by certificate or otherwise, although a statement of the coverage provided may be given, or required by the policy to be given, to eligible persons.

B. An individual application need not be required from a person covered under a blanket insurance policy.

C. No insurer issuing a blanket insurance policy shall be required to furnish a certificate to each person covered by the policy.

D. A blanket insurance policy may be issued or issued for delivery in the Commonwealth if it conforms to one of the following descriptions:

1. A policy or contract issued to any common carrier or to any operator, owner, lessor or lessee of a means of transportation, which shall be deemed the policyholder, which policy or contract covers a group defined as all persons who may become passengers, renters, lessors, lessees, or operators defined by their travel status on such common carrier or means of transportation.

2. A policy issued to an employer, who shall be deemed the policyholder, covering any group of workers, dependents or guests defined by reference to hazards incident to any activity or activities or operations of the policyholder.

3. A policy issued to a school, an institution of higher education, a school district, school districts, or a school jurisdictional unit, or to the head, principal, or governing board thereof, who or which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering students, parents, teachers, employees, or volunteers.

4. A policy issued in the name of any volunteer or governmental fire department, first aid, civil defense, or other such volunteer group, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering any group of the members, participants, or volunteers incident to any activity or activities or operations sponsored or supervised by such department or group.

5. A policy or contract issued to a sports team, camp, or sponsor thereof, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering participants, members, campers, employees, officials, supervisors, or volunteers.

6. A policy or contract issued to a religious, charitable, recreational, educational, or civic organization or branch thereof, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering any group of members, participants, or volunteers defined by reference to specified hazards incident to any activity or activities or operations sponsored or supervised by or on the premises of such policyholder.

7. A policy or contract issued to a restaurant, hotel, motel, resort, innkeeper, or other group with a high degree of potential customer liability, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering patrons, guests, or volunteers.

8. A policy or contract issued to an entertainment production company, who shall be deemed the policyholder, covering any group of participants, volunteers, audience members, contestants, or workers.

9. A policy or contract issued to a health maintenance organization, a health care provider or other arranger of health services, which shall be deemed the policyholder, covering subscribers, patients, donors, and surrogates provided that the coverage is not made a condition of receiving care.

10. A policy or contract issued to a bank, association, financial or other institution, vendor, or to a parent holding company, or to the trustee, trustees, or agent designated by one or more banks, associations, financial or other institutions, or vendors under which accountholders, credit card holders, debtors, guarantors, or purchasers are insured.

11. A policy or contract issued to an incorporated or unincorporated association of persons having a common interest or calling, which association shall be deemed the policyholder, formed for purposes other than obtaining insurance, covering members or participants of such association.

12. A policy or contract issued to a travel agency, or other organization that provides travel related services, which organization shall be deemed the policyholder, to cover all persons for which travel related services are provided.

13. A policy issued to any other risk or class of risks which, in the discretion of the Commission, may be subject to the issuance of a blanket accident and sickness policy. The discretion of the Commission may be exercised on an individual risk basis or class of risks, or both.

E. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, any benefits that are payable under a blanket insurance policy shall be paid directly to the person covered under such policy.

2014, c. [350](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0350).

