# ยง 38.2-1617 Termination of operation of Association; expiration of chapter.

A. The Commission shall by order terminate the operation of the Association for any class of insurance covered by this chapter with respect to which it has found, after hearing, that there is in effect a statutory or voluntary plan which:

1. Is a permanent plan that is adequately funded or for which adequate funding is provided; and

2. Extends or will extend to the policyholders and residents of this Commonwealth protection and benefits with respect to insolvent insurers not substantially less favorable and effective to those policyholders and residents than the protection and benefits provided with respect to the classes of insurance under this chapter.

B. The Commission shall, by the same order, authorize discontinuance of future payments by insurers to the Association regarding the same classes of insurance. However, the assessments and payments shall continue, as necessary, to pay (i) covered claims of insurers determined to be insolvent prior to the order and (ii) the related expenses not covered by any other plan.

C. In the event the operation of the Association is terminated for all other classes of insurance within its scope, the Association shall, as soon as possible, distribute the balance of moneys and assets remaining. Distribution shall be made after the Association has settled all prior insurer insolvencies not covered by any other plan, including their related expenses. The distribution shall be made to the insurers that are then writing in this Commonwealth policies of the classes of insurance covered by this chapter and that had made payments to the Association. Distribution shall be made using a pro rata method based upon the aggregate of the payments made by the respective insurers during the five years immediately preceding the date of the order. Upon completion of the distribution for all of the classes of insurance covered by this chapter, this chapter shall be deemed to have expired.

1970, c. 766, ยง 38.1-774; 1986, c. 562.

