# ยง 38.2-6404 Cancellation.

A. Guaranteed asset protection waiver agreements may be cancelable or non-cancelable after the free look period. GAP waivers shall provide that if a borrower cancels a waiver within the free look period, the borrower will be entitled to a full refund of the purchase price, if no benefits have been provided.

B. In the event of a borrower's cancellation of the GAP waiver or early termination of the finance agreement, after the agreement has been in effect beyond the free look period, the borrower may be entitled to a refund of any unearned portion of the purchase price of the waiver unless the waiver provides otherwise. In order to receive any refund due in the event of a borrower's cancellation of the GAP waiver agreement or early termination of the finance agreement after the free look period of the GAP waiver, the borrower, in accordance with the terms of the waiver, is required to provide a written request to cancel to the creditor, administrator, or such other party. If the GAP waiver is canceled as a result of the early termination of the finance agreement, the borrower shall provide the request within 90 days of the occurrence of the event terminating the finance agreement.

C. If the cancellation of a GAP waiver occurs as a result of a default under the finance agreement or the repossession of the motor vehicle associated with the finance agreement, or any other termination of the finance agreement, any refund due may be paid directly to the creditor or administrator and applied as set forth in subsection D.

D. Any cancellation refund under subsection A, B, or C may be applied by the creditor as a reduction of the amount owed under the finance agreement unless the borrower can show that the finance agreement has been paid in full.

2019, cc. [799](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0799), [800](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0800).

