# § 38.2-1806 Interest with respect to credit extended or money lent for premiums on certain policies.

A. Any agent licensed in this Commonwealth to sell, solicit or negotiate property and casualty insurance, mutual assessment property and casualty insurance, or ocean marine insurance may charge interest on credit extended by the agent to the holder of any fire, casualty, surety or marine insurance policy, written or being serviced by or through such agent, for the premium due on such policy. The rate of interest shall not exceed one and one-half percent per month of the unpaid balance. However, the extension of credit or the making of the loan shall not be in conflict with the contract between the agent and the insurer that issues the policy.

B. A licensed insurance agent extending credit as authorized in this section shall not be required to comply with the provisions of Chapter 47 (§ [38.2-4700](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4700/) et seq.) of this title with respect to the licensing of premium finance companies.

C. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ [38.2-2114](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2114/) and [38.2-2212](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2212/), if any insured fails to discharge any of his obligations to a licensed insurance agent when due in connection with the payment of any premium for a policy of insurance, that agent may request in writing that the insurer cancel such policy for nonpayment of premium. Within ten business days of the receipt of such written request, which shall also state the amount owed the agent by the policyholder, the insurer shall deliver or mail a written notice of cancellation to the named insured at the address shown in the policy and to any mortgagee or lienholder. This notice shall state the date on which the cancellation shall become effective. That date shall be established by giving at least the number of days notice prior to cancellation that are required by statute or the terms of the policy. Except for statutory requirements and contractual obligations, there shall be no liability on the part of the insurer for improper cancellation under this section if the insurer (i) in good faith relies upon the request of the agent and (ii) gives notice of cancellation in compliance with the provisions of this section.

D. The insurance agent shall have a lien on any return premium for the policy to the extent of the amount owed by the policyholder. Within thirty calendar days of the mailing of the notice of cancellation, the insurer shall forward that amount to the agent and shall forward the remainder, if any, of the return premium to the policyholder.

Code 1950, § 38.1-293.1; 1970, c. 370; 1979, c. 513, § 38.1-327.7; 1980, c. 581; 1985, c. 33; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 521; 2001, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706).

