# § 38.2-2005 Provisions governing making of rates.

A. Rates for the classes of insurance to which this chapter applies shall not be excessive, inadequate, or unfairly discriminatory. All rates and all changes and amendments to rates to which this chapter applies for use in this Commonwealth shall consider loss experience and other factors within Virginia if relevant and actuarially sound; however, other data, including countrywide, regional or other state data, may be considered where such data is relevant and where a sound actuarial basis exists for considering data other than Virginia-specific data.

B. 1. In making rates for the classes of insurance to which this chapter applies, separate consideration shall be given to (i) past and prospective loss experience within and outside this Commonwealth, (ii) conflagration or catastrophe hazards, (iii) a reasonable margin for underwriting profit and contingencies, (iv) dividends, savings or unabsorbed premium deposits allowed or returned by insurers to their policyholders, members or subscribers, (v) past and prospective expenses both countrywide and those specifically applicable to this Commonwealth, (vi) investment income earned or realized by insurers from their unearned premium and loss reserve and the Commission may give separate consideration to investment income earned on surplus funds, (vii) the loss reserving practices, standards and procedures utilized by the insurer, and (viii) all other relevant factors within and outside this Commonwealth. When actual experience or data does not exist, the Commission may consider estimates.

2. In the case of fire insurance rates, consideration shall be given to the experience of the fire insurance business during a period of not less than the most recent five-year period for which such experience is available.

3. [Repealed.]

In the case of workers' compensation insurance rates for volunteer firefighters or volunteer emergency medical services personnel written through the Virginia Worker's Compensation Insurance Plan, the rates shall be calculated based upon the combined experience of both volunteer firefighters or volunteer emergency medical services personnel and paid firefighters or paid emergency medical services personnel, so that the resulting rate is the same for both volunteer and paid members, but in no event shall resulting premiums be less than $40 per year for any volunteer firefighter or volunteer emergency medical services personnel.

C. For the classes of insurance to which this chapter applies (i) the systems of expense provisions included in the rates for use by any insurer or group of insurers may differ from those of other insurers or groups of insurers to reflect the requirements of the operating methods of any such insurer or group for any class of insurance, or for any subdivision or combination of insurance for which separate expense provisions apply, and (ii) risks may be grouped by classifications for the establishment of rates and minimum premiums. Classification rates may be modified to produce rates for individual risks in accordance with rating plans that establish standards for measuring variations in hazards, expense provisions, or both. The standards may measure any difference among risks that can be demonstrated to have a probable effect upon losses or expenses.

D. All rates, rating schedules or rating plans and every manual of classifications, rules and rates, including every modification thereof, approved by the Commission under this chapter, shall be used until a change is approved by the Commission.

Code 1950, §§ 38-208, 38-253.21, 38-253.68; 1950, p. 403; 1952, c. 317, § 38.1-252; 1962, c. 253; 1970, c. 186; 1972, c. 836; 1973, c. 504; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 697; 1996, c. [250](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0250); 2002, c. [145](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0145); 2015, cc. [502](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0502), [503](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0503).

