# § 38.2-6604 (Contingent effective date — see Editor's note) Commonwealth Health Reinsurance Program Special Fund.

A. The Commission shall be authorized to fund the operations of the Program and to fund other purposes to implement the approved State Innovation Waiver through funds provided to the Commonwealth pursuant to the State Innovation Waiver requested pursuant to § [38.2-6606](/vacode/38.2-6606/) and all funds appropriated for such purpose. All funds received under this section and paid into the state treasury shall be deposited to a special fund designated the "Commonwealth Health Reinsurance Program Special Fund State Corporation Commission." Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used for (i) the purposes of increasing affordability in the individual market through the Program with a goal of decreasing premiums by up to 20 percent, depending on available revenue and (ii) the establishment, operation, and administration of the Program in carrying out the purposes authorized under this chapter, to include additional purposes to implement an approved State Innovation Waiver with funds that remain following the payment of all applicable reinsurance requests for a benefit year.

B. The Commission shall not use any special fund revenues dedicated to its other functions and duties, including revenues from utility consumer taxes or fees from licensees regulated by the Commission, or fees paid to the office of the Clerk of the Commission, to fund any of the activities or operating expenses of the Program. The Commission shall not pay any funds beyond the moneys in the Fund for the establishment, administration, or operation of the Program.

C. The provision of reinsurance payments shall not constitute an entitlement derived from the Commonwealth or a claim on any other money of the Commonwealth.

D. The Commission shall have no responsibility to make reinsurance payments that would be payable out of federal pass-through funding if such federal pass-through funding is insufficient to fully make such payments.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [480](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0480).

