# § 38.2-6504 Exchange requirements.

A. The Exchange shall make qualified health plans and qualified dental plans available to qualified individuals and qualified employers, beginning on a date set by the Commission, which date shall not be later than January 1, 2023, unless the Commission determines that postponement of such date is necessary to complete the establishment of the Exchange. The Exchange shall not make available any health benefit plan that is not a qualified health plan. The Exchange shall allow a health carrier to offer a qualified dental plan either to supplement a qualified health plan or separately, as practicable.

B. The Exchange shall provide for the establishment of a SHOP exchange that will permit enrollment of eligible employees of qualified small employers in the Commonwealth directly through qualified health plan issuers, qualified dental plan issuers, or licensed agents that meet established Exchange standards.

C. The Exchange shall allow a health carrier to offer a plan that provides limited scope dental benefits meeting the requirements of § 9832(c)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 through the Exchange, if the plan provides pediatric dental benefits meeting the requirements of § 1302(b)(1)(J) of the Federal Act.

D. Neither the Exchange nor a carrier offering qualified health benefit plans through the Exchange may charge an individual a fee or penalty for termination of coverage if the individual enrolls in another type of minimum essential coverage because the individual has become newly eligible for that coverage or because the individual's employer-sponsored coverage has become affordable under the standards of § 36B(c)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

E. The Exchange and any associated programs shall be established and operated and offer plans in compliance with § 1321 (b) of the Federal Act.

2020, cc. [916](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0916), [917](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0917).

