# ยง 38.2-5102 Risk retention groups chartered in this Commonwealth.

A. A risk retention group seeking to be chartered in this Commonwealth shall be chartered and licensed as a liability insurance company authorized by the insurance laws of this Commonwealth to write only liability insurance pursuant to this chapter and, except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, shall comply with (i) all of the laws, rules, regulations and requirements applicable to such insurers chartered and licensed in this Commonwealth and with (ii) ยง [38.2-5103](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-5103/) to the extent such requirements are not a limitation on laws, rules, regulations or requirements of this Commonwealth.

B. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, all risk retention groups chartered in this Commonwealth shall file with the Commission and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), an annual statement in a form prescribed by the NAIC and in diskette form, if required by the Commission, and completed in accordance with its instructions and the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual.

C. Before it may offer insurance in any state, each risk retention group shall also submit for approval to the Commission a plan of operation or feasibility study. The risk retention group shall submit an appropriate revision in the event of any subsequent material change in any item of the plan of operation or feasibility study, within ten days of any such change. The group shall not offer any additional kinds of liability insurance, in this Commonwealth or any other state, until a revision of the plan or study is approved by the Commission.

D. At the time of filing its application for licensure, the risk retention group shall provide to the Commission in summary form the following information: the identity of the initial members of the group, the identity of those individuals who organized the group or who will provide administrative services or otherwise influence or control the activities of the group, the amount and nature of initial capitalization, the coverages to be afforded, and the states in which the group intends to operate.

1987, c. 585; 1992, c. 588.

