# ยง 38.2-2509 Directors; terms; annual meetings; voting; executive committee.

As provided in the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws, the management of any mutual assessment property and casualty insurer shall be vested in a board of at least five directors, each of whom shall be a member of the insurer. Each director shall hold office for one year or for a longer term if specified in the bylaws, and thereafter until his successor is elected and has qualified. Vacancies in the board may be filled for the unexpired term by the remaining directors. The annual meeting of the members of the insurer shall be held as provided by the certificate or articles of incorporation or the bylaws. A quorum shall consist of (i) ten members or (ii) the number of members specified by either the certificate or articles of incorporation or the bylaws, whichever number is larger. In all meetings of members, each member of the insurer shall be entitled to one vote, or a number of votes based upon insurance in force, the number of policies held or the amount of premiums paid as provided by the bylaws of the insurer. Votes by proxy may be received in accordance with the certificate or articles of incorporation or the bylaws. The date of the annual meeting shall be stated in the policy, or notice of the date and location of the annual meeting shall be provided annually. Notwithstanding the provisions of the charter of any insurer, upon a resolution adopted by the board of directors and approved by a majority of its members present in person or by proxy, the directors may be divided into classes and a portion only elected each year. Pursuant to the provisions of ยง [13.1-869](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-869/), the directors may appoint an executive committee to exercise the powers and perform the duties set out in that section.

1952, c. 317, ยง 38.1-667; 1956, c. 431; 1986, c. 562.

