# § 38.2-1819 Application for license; fee required; fingerprints.

A. Each applicant for a license shall make application to the Commission, in the form and containing the information the Commission prescribes. Each applicant shall, at the time of applying for a license, pay a nonrefundable application processing fee in an amount and in a manner prescribed by the Commission. The prescribed application processing fee shall not be less than $10 nor more than $20 per line of authority. The fee shall be collected by the Commission and paid directly into the state treasury and credited to the fund for the maintenance of the Bureau of Insurance as provided in subsection B of § [38.2-400](/vacode/38.2-400/).

B. Each individual who is a resident of the Commonwealth shall, at the time of applying for a new license, be fingerprinted in a form and manner prescribed by the Commission and shall provide personal descriptive information to be forwarded along with the applicant's fingerprints through the Central Criminal Records Exchange to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the purpose of obtaining criminal history record information regarding such applicant. The results of the state and national records search shall be forwarded to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designee, who shall be an employee of the Commission. The cost of fingerprinting and the criminal history record check shall be paid by the applicant. If an applicant's application for a license is denied, the Commission shall provide a copy of the information obtained from the Central Criminal Records Exchange to the applicant upon request. The information provided to the Commission shall not be disseminated except as provided in this subsection.

C. No resident license requiring an examination shall be issued by the Commission later than 183 calendar days from the date the applicant satisfies the prelicensing examination requirements set forth in § [38.2-1817](/vacode/38.2-1817/). Applicants failing to satisfy this requirement shall be required to satisfy all prelicensing requirements, including the examination, again before applying.

D. Except where prohibited by state or federal law, by submitting an application for license, the applicant shall be deemed to have appointed the clerk of the Commission as the agent for service of process on the applicant in any action or proceeding arising in the Commonwealth out of or in connection with the exercise of the license. Such appointment of the clerk of the Commission as agent for service of process shall be irrevocable during the period within which a cause of action against the applicant may arise out of transactions with respect to subjects of insurance in the Commonwealth. Service of process on the clerk of the Commission shall conform to the provisions of Chapter 8 (§ [38.2-800](/vacode/38.2-800/) et seq.).

1979, c. 513, § 38.1-327.20; 1986, c. 562; 1987, c. 521; 1989, c. 435; 1994, c. [316](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0316); 2001, c. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706); 2019, c. [675](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0675).

