# § 38.2-4106 Location of office; meetings, communications to members; grievance procedures.

A. The principal office of any domestic society shall be located in this Commonwealth. The meetings of its supreme governing body may be held in any state, district, province or territory wherein such society has at least one subordinate lodge, or in any other location determined by the supreme governing body. All business transacted at such meetings shall be as valid in all respects as if such meetings were held in this Commonwealth. The minutes of the proceedings of the supreme governing body and of the board of directors shall be in the English language.

B. 1. A society may provide in its laws for an official publication in which any notice, report, or statement required by law to be given to members, including notice of election, may be published. Such required reports, notices, and statements shall be printed conspicuously in the publication. If the records of a society show that two or more members have the same mailing address, an official publication mailed to one member is deemed to be mailed to all members at the same address unless a member requests a separate copy.

2. Not later than June 1 of each year, a synopsis of the society's annual statement providing an explanation of the facts concerning the condition of the society thereby disclosed shall either (i) be printed and mailed to each benefit member of the society or (ii) published in the society's official publication.

C. A society may provide in its laws or rules for grievance or complaint procedures for members.

Code 1950, §§ 38-259, 38-318, 38.1-576, 38.1-626; 1952, c. 317, §§ 38.1-638.8, 38.1-638.47; 1968, c. 654; 1986, c. 562.

