# ยง 38.2-1914 Licensing of rate service organizations.

A. A rate service organization applying for a license as required by ยง [38.2-1913](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1913/) shall include with its application:

1. A copy of its constitution, charter, articles of organization, agreement, association or incorporation, and a copy of its bylaws, plan of operation and any other rules or regulations governing the conduct of its business;

2. A list of its members and subscribers;

3. The name and address of one or more residents of this Commonwealth upon whom notices, process affecting it or orders of the Commission may be served;

4. A statement showing its technical qualifications for acting in the capacity for which it seeks a license; and

5. Any other relevant information and documents that the Commission may require.

B. Each organization which has applied for a license under subsection A of this section shall promptly notify the Commission of every material change in the facts or in the documents on which its application was based.

C. If the Commission finds that the applicant and the natural persons through whom it acts are competent, trustworthy, and technically qualified to provide the services proposed, and that all requirements of law have been met, the Commission shall issue a license specifying the authorized activity of the applicant.

D. Licenses issued under subsection C of this section shall remain in effect until the licensee withdraws from the Commonwealth or until the license is suspended or revoked.

E. Any amendment to a document filed under subdivision 1 of subsection A of this section shall be filed promptly after it becomes effective. Failure to comply with this subsection shall be a ground for revocation of the license granted under subsection C of this section.

1973, c. 504, ยง 38.1-279.42; 1986, c. 562.

