# § 4.1-103.03 Additional powers; mediation; alternative dispute resolution; confidentiality.

A. As used in this section:

"Appropriate case" means any alleged license violation or objection to the application for a license in which it is apparent that there are significant issues of disagreement among interested persons and for which the Board finds that the use of a mediation or dispute resolution proceeding is in the public interest.

"Dispute resolution proceeding" means the same as that term is defined in § [8.01-576.4](/vacode/8.01-576.4/).

"Mediation" means the same as that term is defined in § [8.01-576.4](/vacode/8.01-576.4/).

"Neutral" means the same as that term is defined in § [8.01-576.4](/vacode/8.01-576.4/).

B. The Board may use mediation or a dispute resolution proceeding in appropriate cases to resolve underlying issues or reach a consensus or compromise on contested issues. Mediation and other dispute resolution proceedings as authorized by this section shall be voluntary procedures that supplement, rather than limit, other dispute resolution techniques available to the Board. Mediation or a dispute resolution proceeding may be used for an objection to the issuance of a license only with the consent of, and participation by, the applicant for licensure and shall be terminated at the request of such applicant.

C. Any resolution of a contested issue accepted by the Board under this section shall be considered a consent agreement as provided in subdivision 21 of § [4.1-103](/vacode/4.1-103/). The decision to use mediation or a dispute resolution proceeding is in the Board's sole discretion and shall not be subject to judicial review.

D. The Board may adopt rules and regulations, in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.), for the implementation of this section. Such rules and regulations may include (i) standards and procedures for the conduct of mediation and dispute resolution proceedings, including an opportunity for interested persons identified by the Board to participate in the proceeding; (ii) the appointment and function of a neutral to encourage and assist parties to voluntarily compromise or settle contested issues; and (iii) procedures to protect the confidentiality of papers, work products, or other materials.

E. The provisions of § [8.01-576.10](/vacode/8.01-576.10/) concerning the confidentiality of a mediation or dispute resolution proceeding shall govern all such proceedings held pursuant to this section except where the Board uses or relies on information obtained in the course of such proceeding in granting a license, suspending or revoking a license, or accepting payment of a civil penalty or investigative costs. However, a consent agreement signed by the parties shall not be confidential.

2017, cc. [698](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0698), [707](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0707); 2020, cc. [1113](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1113), [1114](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1114).

