# ยง 4.1-103.01 Additional powers; access to certain tobacco sales records; inspections; penalty.

A. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง [58.1-3](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3/) or any other provision of law, the Tax Commissioner shall provide to the Board the name, address, and other identifying information within his possession of all wholesale cigarette dealers.

B. All invoices, books, papers or other memoranda and records concerning the sale of cigarettes maintained by wholesale cigarette dealers pursuant to ยง [58.1-1007](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1007/) shall be subject to inspection during normal business hours by special agents of the Board. Any person who, upon request by a special agent, unreasonably fails or refuses to allow an inspection of the records authorized by this subsection shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.

C. The Board may use the information obtained from the Tax Commissioner or by the inspections authorized by subsection B only for the purpose of creating and maintaining a list of retail dealers to facilitate enforcement of the laws governing the sale of tobacco products to minors. Neither the Board nor any special agent shall divulge any information provided by the Tax Commissioner or obtained in the performance of the inspections authorized by subsection B to anyone other than to another special agent. Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.

1998, cc. [189](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0189), [364](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0364).

