# ยง 4.1-330 Solicitation by persons interested in manufacture, etc., of alcoholic beverages; penalty.

A. No person having any interest, direct or indirect, in the manufacture, distribution, or sale of spirits or other alcoholic beverages shall, without a permit granted by the Board and upon such conditions as the Board may prescribe, solicit either directly or indirectly (i) a mixed beverage licensee; (ii) any agent, servant, or employee of such licensee; or (iii) any person connected with the licensee in any capacity whatsoever in his licensed business, to sell or offer for sale the particular spirits or other alcoholic beverage in which such person may be so interested.

The Board, upon proof of any solicitation in violation of this subsection, may suspend or terminate the sale through government stores or its purchase of the brand of spirits or other alcoholic beverage which was the subject matter of the unlawful solicitation or promotion. In addition, the Board may suspend or terminate the sale through such stores or its purchase of all brands of spirits or other alcoholic beverages manufactured or distributed by either the employer or principal of such solicitor, the broker, or by the owner of the brand of spirits unlawfully solicited or promoted. The Board may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $250,000 in lieu of such suspension or termination of sales through government stores or purchases by the Board or portion thereof, or both.

Any person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

B. No mixed beverage licensee or any agent, servant, or employee of such licensee, or any person connected with the licensee in any capacity whatsoever in his licensed business shall, either directly or indirectly, be a party to, consent to, solicit, or aid or abet another in a violation of subsection A.

The Board may suspend or revoke the license granted to such licensee, or may impose a civil penalty not to exceed $25,000 in lieu of such suspension or any portion thereof, or both.

Any person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

1968, c. 7, ยง 4-98.16; 1988, c. 786; 1990, c. 442; 1993, c. 866.

