# ยง 4.1-1120 Persons charged with first offense may be placed on probation; conditions; substance abuse screening, assessment treatment, and education programs or services; drug tests; costs and fees; violations; discharge.

A. Whenever any person who has not previously been convicted of any offense under this subtitle pleads guilty to or enters a plea of not guilty to an offense under this subtitle, the court, upon such plea if the facts found by the court would justify a finding of guilt, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of the accused, may defer further proceedings and place the accused on probation upon terms and conditions.

B. As a term or condition, the court shall require the accused to undergo a substance abuse assessment pursuant to ยง [19.2-299.2](/vacode/19.2-299.2/) and enter treatment or an education program or services, or any combination thereof, if available, such as, in the opinion of the court, may be best suited to the needs of the accused based upon consideration of the substance abuse assessment. The program or services may be located in the judicial district in which the charge is brought or in any other judicial district as the court may provide. The services shall be provided by (i) a program licensed by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, or a similar program that is made available through the Department of Corrections; (ii) a local community-based probation services agency established pursuant to ยง [9.1-174](/vacode/9.1-174/); or (iii) an alcohol safety action program (ASAP) certified by the Commission on the Virginia Alcohol Safety Action Program (VASAP).

C. The court shall require the person entering such program under the provisions of this section to pay all or part of the costs of the program, including the costs of the screening, assessment, testing, and treatment, based upon the accused's ability to pay, unless the person is determined by the court to be indigent.

D. As a condition of probation, the court shall require the accused (i) to successfully complete treatment or education programs or services, (ii) to remain drug-free and alcohol-free during the period of probation and submit to such tests during that period as may be necessary and appropriate to determine if the accused is drug-free and alcohol-free, (iii) to make reasonable efforts to secure and maintain employment, and (iv) to comply with a plan of up to 24 hours of community service. Such testing shall be conducted by personnel of the supervising probation agency or personnel of any program or agency approved by the supervising probation agency.

E. Upon violation of a term or condition, the court may enter an adjudication of guilt and proceed as otherwise provided. Upon fulfillment of the terms and conditions, the court shall discharge the person and dismiss the proceedings against him. Discharge and dismissal under this section shall be without adjudication of guilt and is a conviction only for the purposes of applying this section in subsequent proceedings.

F. When any juvenile is found to have committed a violation of subsection A, the disposition of the case shall be handled according to the provisions of Article 9 (ยง [16.1-278](/vacode/16.1-278/) et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 16.1.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [550](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550), [551](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551).

