# ยง 4.1-609 Background investigations of Board members and Chief Executive Officer.

All members of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer shall be fingerprinted before, and as a condition of, appointment. These fingerprints shall be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a national criminal history records search and to the Department of State Police for a Virginia criminal history records search. The Department of State Police shall be reimbursed by the Authority for the cost of investigations conducted pursuant to this section. No person shall be appointed to the Board or appointed by the Board who (i) has defrauded or attempted to defraud any federal, state, or local government or governmental agency or authority by making or filing any report, document, or tax return required by statute or regulation that is fraudulent or contains a false representation of a material fact; (ii) has willfully deceived or attempted to deceive any federal, state, or local government or governmental agency or governmental authority by making or maintaining business records required by statute or regulation that are false and fraudulent; or (iii) has been convicted of (a) a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude or (b) a violation of any law applicable to the manufacture, transportation, possession, use, or sale of marijuana within the five years immediately preceding appointment.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [550](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0550), [551](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0551).

