# ยง 40.1-51.2 Rights and duties of employees.

(a) It shall be the duty of each employee to comply with all occupational safety and health rules and regulations issued pursuant to this chapter and any orders issued thereunder which are applicable to his own action and conduct.

(b) Employees or their representatives may bring to the attention of their employer any hazardous conditions that exist or bring the matter to the attention of the Commissioner or his authorized representative, without first bringing the matter to the attention of their employer. Upon receipt of any complaint of hazardous conditions, the Commissioner or his authorized representative shall cause an inspection to be made as soon as practicable. Within two working days after making the oral complaint the employee or the employee representative shall file a written complaint with the Commissioner on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, if at that time, the Commissioner or his authorized representative has not caused the hazardous condition to be corrected. A copy of such written complaint shall be made available to the employer by the Commissioner at the time of such inspection. The name or names of individuals bringing such matters to the attention of the Commissioner shall be held in confidence upon request of such individuals.

(c) [Repealed.]

(d) A representative of the employees selected by the employees shall be given an opportunity to accompany the Commissioner or his authorized representative during the physical inspection of the work place for the purpose of aiding such inspection. Where there is no authorized employee representative, the Commissioner or his authorized representative shall consult with a reasonable number of employees concerning matters of health and safety at the work place. No person shall discharge or in any manner discriminate against an employee representative for his participation in any safety and health inspection.

(e) The employer and the complaining employee, employees or employee representative shall be notified in writing by the Commissioner or his authorized representative of any decision concerning a complaint, of the reasons for such decision and of the rights of the parties to redress pursuant to ยง [40.1-49.4](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/40.1-49.4/) of the Code.

1972, c. 602; 1973, c. 425; 1976, c. 607.

