# ยง 40.1-51.1 Duties of employers.

A. It shall be the duty of every employer to furnish to each of his employees safe employment and a place of employment that is free from recognized hazards that are causing or are likely to cause death or serious physical harm to his employees and to comply with all applicable occupational safety and health rules and regulations promulgated under this title.

B. Every employer shall provide to employees, by such suitable means as shall be prescribed in rules and regulations of the Safety and Health Codes Board, information regarding their exposure to toxic materials or harmful physical agents and prompt information when they are exposed to concentration or levels of toxic materials or harmful physical agents in excess of those prescribed by the applicable safety and health standards and shall provide employees or their representatives with the opportunity to observe monitoring or measuring of exposures. Every employer shall also inform any employee who is being exposed of the corrective action being taken and shall provide former employees with access to information about their exposure to toxic materials or harmful physical agents.

C. Every employer cited for a violation of any safety and health provisions of this title or standards, rules, and regulations promulgated thereunder shall post a copy of such citation at the site of the violations so noted as prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Safety and Health Codes Board.

D. Every employer shall report to the Virginia Department of Labor and Industry within eight hours any work-related incident resulting in a fatality or within 24 hours any work-related incident resulting in (i) the inpatient hospitalization of one or more persons, (ii) an amputation, or (iii) the loss of an eye, as prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Safety and Health Codes Board.

E. Every employer, through posting of notices or other appropriate means, shall keep his employees informed of their rights and responsibilities under this title and of specific safety and health standards applicable to his business establishment.

F. An employer representative shall be given the opportunity to accompany the safety and health inspectors on safety or health inspections.

G. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of the Commissioner pursuant to ยง [40.1-6](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/40.1-6/) or the Board pursuant to ยง [40.1-22](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/40.1-22/) to promulgate necessary rules and regulations to protect and promote the safety and health of employees.

1972, c. 602; 1973, c. 425; 1976, c. 607; 1979, c. 354; 1995, c. [373](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0373); 2015, c. [270](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0270); 2016, c. [336](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0336).

