# ยง 40.1-30 Registration of certain nonresident employers with Department.

(a) Any employer domiciled without this Commonwealth and performing any demolition, excavation, installation, paving, repair, maintenance, erection or construction work within this Commonwealth for a fixed price, commission, fee or percentage, when the cost of the undertaking, order, contract or subcontract is not less than $300 nor more than $60,000, shall, prior to the commencement of each such undertaking or the performance of each such order, contract or subcontract, register with the Department, at Richmond, on such form as may be prescribed by said Department, providing thereon the employer's name and address, the name and address of the employer's chief officer or owner, the name and address of the person in charge of the work being done, the type of work to be done, the date work will commence, the specific location of the work, the name of the person, firm, corporation, partnership or association for whom the work is being performed, the cost of the undertaking or the amount of the order, contract or subcontract and the approximate number of persons employed by the employer in said undertaking or performance, including the rates of pay and the number of persons employed at each rate and shall be submitted to the Department with a United States postal service money order or check drawn in favor of the State Treasurer in the amount of $100 for annual registration or $25 for registration for a specific job. Provided, however, nothing in this section shall apply to any such contractor who is registered under the provisions of Title 54.1, Chapter 11. Provided further, that any such employer may apply to the Department for annual registration which, if granted, shall relieve such employer from registration of each specific contract. Annual registration may be granted if the Department shall ascertain that such employer has a permanent and definite place of business outside this Commonwealth.

(b) Any employer failing to register with the Department as required by this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $500. Each day's failure to register shall constitute a separate offense.

(c) This section shall be enforceable by the Commissioner and all officers empowered to enforce the criminal laws of this Commonwealth.

Code 1950, ยง 40-24.1; 1966, c. 614; 1968, c. 106; 1970, c. 321; 1972, c. 241; 1979, c. 484.

