# ยง 40.1-117 Apprenticeship Council; membership and terms of office; meetings and duties.

A. The Governor shall appoint an Apprenticeship Council, composed of four representatives each from employer and employee organizations respectively, and all of whom shall be familiar with apprenticeable occupations. The Commissioner of the Virginia Employment Commission, the Chancellor of the Virginia Community College System, or their designated representatives, and a local superintendent from a school division that provides apprenticeship-related instruction, shall be members, ex officio, of the Council. At the beginning of each year the Governor shall designate one member to serve as chairman. Each member shall be appointed for a term of three years. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the term of his predecessor shall be appointed for the remainder of such term. All members, including ex officio members, shall have voting privileges.

B. The Apprenticeship Council shall meet at the call of the chairman of the Council and shall formulate policies for the effective administration of this chapter.

C. The Apprenticeship Council shall establish standards for apprentice agreements which shall not be lower than those prescribed by this chapter and those established pursuant to Article 3 (ยง [54.1-1128](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-1128/) et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 54.1, and shall perform such other functions as may be necessary to carry out the intent and purposes of this chapter. Not less than once a year the Council shall make a report of its activities and findings to the General Assembly and to the public.

Code 1950, ยง 40-123; 1968, c. 273; 1970, c. 321; 1978, c. 206; 1980, c. 728; 1981, c. 331; 1987, c. 165; 1992, c. 231.

