# ยง 40.1-51.9:2 Financial responsibility requirements for contract fee inspectors.

A. Contract fee inspectors inspecting or certifying regulated boilers or pressure vessels in the Commonwealth shall maintain evidence of their financial responsibility, including compensation to third parties, for bodily injury and property damage resulting from, or directly relating to, an inspector's negligent inspection or recommendation for certification of a boiler or pressure vessel.

B. Documentation of financial responsibility, including documentation of insurance or bond, shall be provided to the Chief Inspector within thirty days after certification of the inspector. The Chief Inspector may revoke an inspector's certification for failure to provide documentation of financial responsibility in a timely fashion.

C. The Safety and Health Codes Board is authorized to promulgate regulations requiring contract fee inspectors, as a condition of their doing business in the Commonwealth, to demonstrate financial responsibility sufficient to comply with the requirements of this chapter. Regulations governing the amount of any financial responsibility required by the contract fee inspector shall take into consideration the type, capacity and number of boilers or pressure vessels inspected or certified.

D. Financial responsibility may be demonstrated by self-insurance, insurance, guaranty or surety, or any other method approved by the Board, or any combination thereof, under the terms the Board may prescribe. A contract fee inspector whose financial responsibility is accepted by the Board under this subsection shall notify the Chief Inspector at least thirty days before the effective date of the change, expiration, or cancellation of any instrument of insurance, guaranty or surety.

E. Acceptance of proof of financial responsibility shall expire on the effective date of any change in the inspector's instrument of insurance, guaranty or surety, or the expiration date of the inspector's certification. Application for renewal of acceptance of proof of financial responsibility shall be filed thirty days before the date of expiration.

F. The Chief Inspector, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may revoke his acceptance of evidence of financial responsibility if he determines that acceptance has been procured by fraud or misrepresentation, or a change in circumstances has occurred that would warrant denial of acceptance of evidence of financial responsibility under this section or the requirements established by the Board pursuant to this section.

G. It is not a defense to any action brought for failure to comply with the requirement to provide acceptable evidence of financial responsibility that the person charged believed in good faith that the owner or operator of an inspected boiler or pressure vessel possessed evidence of financial responsibility accepted by the Chief Inspector or the Board.

1996, c. [294](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0294).

