# ยง 40.1-139 Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

"American Board of Industrial Hygiene" or "ABIH" means a nonprofit corporation established to improve the practice and educational standards of the profession of industrial hygiene by certifying individuals who meet its education, experience, examination and maintenance requirements.

"Associate Safety Professional" or "ASP" means an individual who has been certified by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals as an Associate Safety Professional and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Board of Certified Safety Professionals" or "BCSP" means a nonprofit corporation established to improve the practice and educational standards of the safety profession by certifying individuals who meet its education, experience, examination, and maintenance requirements.

"Certified Associate Industrial Hygienist" or "CAIH" means an individual who has been certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene as a Certified Associate Industrial Hygienist and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Certified Industrial Hygienist" or "CIH" means an individual who has been certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene as a Certified Industrial Hygienist and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Certified Safety Professional" or "CSP" means an individual who has been certified by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals as a Certified Safety Professional and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Construction Health and Safety Technologist" or "CHST" means an individual who, by virtue of education, experience and examination, has been certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene and the Board of Certified Safety Professionals as a Construction Health and Safety Technologist and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Industrial Hygiene" means the science and art devoted to the anticipation, recognition, evaluation, and control of environmental factors and stresses arising in or from the workplace that may cause sickness, impaired health and well-being, or significant discomfort among workers, and that may also affect the workplace's community.

"Industrial Hygienist in Training" or "IHIT" means an individual certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene as an Industrial Hygienist in Training and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Occupational Health and Safety Technologist" or "OHST" means an individual certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene and the Board of Certified Safety Professionals as an Occupational Health and Safety Technologist and whose certification has not lapsed or been revoked.

"Safety Profession" means the science and discipline concerned with the preservation of human and material resources through the systematic application of principles drawn from technological advancements in the fields of education, design, chemistry, the physical and biological sciences, ergonomics, psychology, physiology, and management for anticipating, identifying and evaluating potentially hazardous systems, conditions and practices, and for developing, implementing, administering, and advising others on hazard control design, methods, procedures, and programs.

2001, c. [742](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0742).

