# ยง 40.1-51.20 Duties of licensed asbestos and certified lead contractors.

A. A licensed asbestos contractor and any certified lead contractor shall notify the Department of Labor and Industry at least twenty days prior to commencement of each asbestos or lead project. Notification shall be sent in a manner prescribed by the Department of Labor and Industry. The Department of Labor and Industry shall have the authority to waive all or any part of the twenty-day notice.

B. A licensed asbestos contractor or certified lead contractor shall obtain an asbestos or lead project permit from the Department of Labor and Industry prior to commencing each asbestos or lead project in accordance with this chapter and shall pay directly to the Commissioner a fee as established by the Safety and Health Codes Board pursuant to the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.). The fees shall be sufficient but not excessive to cover the cost of administering the program. All fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into a special fund in the state treasury to the credit of the Department of Labor and Industry and shall be used in carrying out the Department's mission under this chapter.

The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to asbestos projects in residential buildings as defined by the Board in regulations adopted pursuant to the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

C. A licensed asbestos contractor or certified lead contractor shall keep a record of each asbestos or lead project performed and shall make the record available to the Departments of Professional and Occupational Regulation and of Labor and Industry upon request. Records required by this section shall be kept for at least thirty years. The records shall include:

1. The name, address, and asbestos or lead supervisor's license or certification number of the individual who supervised the asbestos or lead project and each employee or agent who worked on the project;

2. The location and description of the project and the amount of asbestos or lead material that was removed;

3. The starting and completion dates of each project and a summary of the procedures that were used to comply with all federal and state standards; and

4. The name and address of each disposal site where waste containing asbestos or lead was deposited, the results of the lead toxicity characteristic test, and the disposal site receipts.

1992, c. 477; 1995, cc. [543](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0543), [585](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0585); 1996, cc. [180](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0180), [846](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0846).

