# ยง 44-146.34 Purpose; definitions.

A. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the development and implementation of a program to protect the environment and the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the Commonwealth from the threats and potential threats of accidents or incidents involving hazardous materials. This program shall be known as the Virginia Hazardous Materials Emergency Response Program.

B. As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise:

"Coordinator" means the Coordinator of the Department of Emergency Management.

"Department" means the Department of Emergency Management.

"Hazardous materials" means substances or materials which may pose unreasonable risks to health, safety, property, or the environment when used, transported, stored or disposed of, which may include materials which are solid, liquid or gas. Hazardous materials may include toxic substances, flammable and ignitable materials, explosives, corrosive materials, and radioactive materials and include (i) those substances or materials in a form or quantity which may pose an unreasonable risk to health, safety, or property when transported, and which the Secretary of Transportation of the United States has so designated by regulation or order; (ii) hazardous substances as defined or designated by law or regulation of the Commonwealth or law or regulation of the United States government; and (iii) hazardous waste as defined or designated by law or regulation of the Commonwealth.

"Political subdivision" means any city or county in the Commonwealth, and for the purposes of this chapter, any town with a population of more than 5,000 which chooses to have an emergency management program separate from that of the county in which the town is located.

"Transport" or "transportation" means any movement of property by any mode and any packing, loading, unloading, or storage incidental thereto.

1987, c. 492; 2000, c. [309](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0309).

