# ยง 44-82 How troops paid while in service; transportation to be furnished; movement of troops and supplies not to be delayed.

All officers and enlisted personnel of the National Guard or Virginia Defense Force, whenever called out in aid of the civil authorities, shall receive the compensation herein provided, and such compensation, and the necessary expenses incurred in furnishing supplies, subsistence, quartering, and transporting troops, shall be paid no later than 10 work days after the receipt of required payroll documentation by the Payroll Services Bureau of the Department of Accounts by the State Treasurer. Such payments shall be made on warrants to be drawn by the Comptroller, on the State Treasurer, upon certificates of the officer in actual command of the troops, and upon payrolls prepared according to such forms as the state regulations shall prescribe. Such payrolls and certificates are to be transmitted to the Adjutant General through the regular military channels, and he shall approve them before such warrants shall be drawn. The Comptroller and the State Treasurer are hereby authorized and directed to draw the warrants and make the payments herein provided for in accordance with current or subsequently amended pay and allowances of United States armed forces.

The several transportation companies in this Commonwealth shall furnish transportation for troops so called out, stores, munitions and equipments, upon application of the officer in actual command, accompanied by a certificate from him of the number of personnel to be carried and their destination, and a copy of the order calling them out. For such transportation the transportation company shall be entitled to receive compensation from the Commonwealth.

Transportation of troops and military supplies shall be as speedy as possible and have the right-of-way over all passenger and freight traffic on transportation lines within the Commonwealth, and failure to furnish transportation when called upon, or unnecessary delay in transporting such troops and supplies, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $1,000 or more than $10,000.

1930, p. 963; Michie Code 1942, ยง 2673(68); 1958, c. 393; 1973, c. 401; 2011, cc. [572](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0572), [586](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0586); 2015, c. [221](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0221).

