# ยง 45.2-923  Loading and haulage work area requirements.

A. Every ramp or dump shall be of solid construction, ample width, and ample clearance, and headroom shall be kept reasonably free of spillage.

B. Berms or guards shall be provided on the outer bank of every elevated haulage road. Every berm shall be constructed of substantial material to the mid-axle height of the largest vehicle regularly used on such haulage road. The width and height of the berm shall be constructed on a two-to-one ratio when it is constructed of unconsolidated material. Other equally effective and appropriate methods may be used for berms.

C. Berms, bumper blocks, safety hooks, or similar means shall be provided to prevent overtravel and overturning at dumping stations.

D. Dumping locations and haulage roads shall be kept reasonably free of water, debris, and spillage. Water, debris, or spilled material that creates a hazard to moving equipment shall be removed.

E. Every haulage road constructed on or after July 1, 2005, shall be constructed at least one and one-half times the width of the widest equipment in use, and any haulage road that is used for passing shall be constructed at least three times the width of the widest equipment in use. In any area in which it is not possible to construct the haulage road to at least the applicable minimum width, the foreman shall establish procedures for safe travel of haulage vehicles.

F. Traffic rules, signals, and warning signs shall be standardized at each mine and shall be posted. Such rules, signals, and signs shall include rules for the travel of on-road vehicles operating near off-road haulers in work areas.

G. Every dumping station at which material is dumped over an embankment shall be designed to minimize backing and, where conditions permit, to provide for perpendicular travel to allow the equipment operator to observe the dumping station for changing conditions prior to backing. Reflectorized signs, strobe lights, or other available means shall be used to clearly indicate each dumping location. This subsection shall not apply to a dumping station (i) that is moved after each dumped load as mining progresses, (ii) where spotters are being used, or (iii) where loads are dumped short and pushed over the embankment. Any dumping station that could interfere with a haulage road or work area below shall be clearly marked with signs to prevent further dumping, unless other effective precautions are taken to protect such haulage road or work area below the dump station.

Code 1950, ยง 45-85.7; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-36; 1978, c. 729; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), ยง 45.1-161.276; 1996, c. [774](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774); 2005, c. [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003); 2010, cc. [809](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0809), [857](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0857); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

