# ยง 45.2-1012  Revision of permits.

A. The process for revision of a permit is as follows:

1. During the term of a permit, the permittee may submit an application for a revision of such permit, together with a revised operation plan and reclamation plan, to the Director.

2. An application for a revision of a permit shall not be approved unless the Director finds that reclamation as required by the federal act and state regulations can be accomplished under the revised reclamation plan. The Director shall establish by regulation the period of time within which the revision shall be approved or disapproved, as well as parameters for a determination of the scale or extent of a revision request for which all permit application information requirements and procedures, including notice and hearings, shall apply; however, any revisions that propose significant alterations in the operation plan or reclamation plan shall, at a minimum, be subject to notice and hearing requirements.

3. Any extension to the area covered by the permit, except an insignificant boundary revision, shall be made by application for another permit.

B. The Director shall, within a time limit prescribed in regulations adopted by him, review each outstanding permit and may require reasonable revision or modification of the permit provisions during the term of any permit; however, such revision or modification shall be based upon a written finding and subject to notice and hearing requirements.

1979, c. 290, ยง 45.1-236; 1984, c. 590; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

