# § 45.2-740  Inspections of hoisting equipment.

A. Before hoisting or lowering any miner in a shaft, the hoisting engineer shall operate an empty cage up and down each shaft for at least one round trip, both at the beginning of each shift and after the hoist has been idle for one hour or more.

B. Before hoisting or lowering any miner by slope or surface incline hoisting, the hoisting engineer shall operate an empty cage for at least one round trip, both at the beginning of each shift and after the hoist has been idle for one hour or more.

C. The hoisting engineer, at the time the inspections required by subsection A or B are performed, shall (i) inspect all cable or rope fastenings on every cage, bucket, or slope car; (ii) inspect hammer locks and pins, thimbles, and clamps; (iii) inspect safety chains on every cage, bucket, or slope car; (iv) inspect each braking system for malfunctions; (v) clean all excess oil and extraneous materials from the hoist housing construction; (vi) inspect the overwind, overtravel, and lilly switch or control from stopping at the collar and within 100 feet of the work deck; and (vii) check communications between the top house, work deck, and work deck tugger house.

D. The hoisting engineer shall inspect the hoisting rope on every cage or trip at the beginning of each shift.

E. A test of safety catches on every cage shall be made by an authorized person designated by the operator at least once each month. A written record shall be kept of such tests, and such record shall be available for inspection by interested persons.

F. An authorized person designated by the operator shall inspect daily the hoisting equipment, including the headgear, cages, ropes, connections, links and chains, shaft guides, shaft walls, and other facilities. Such person shall also inspect every bull wheel and lighting system on the head frame. Such person shall report immediately to the operator or his agent any defect found, and all such defects shall be corrected promptly. The person making such examination shall make a daily permanent record of such inspection, which shall be available for inspection by interested persons. If a hoist is used only during a weekly examination of an escapeway, then the inspection required by this subsection shall only be required to be completed weekly before the examination occurs.

G. Subsections A, B, C, and D shall not apply to automatically operated elevators.

Code 1950, § 45-68.4; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, §§ 45.1-68, 45.1-69; 1972, c. 784; 1978, c. 729; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), § 45.1-161.158; 1999, c. [256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

