# § 45.2-1805  Membership; terms; vacancies; expenses.

A. The Authority shall be composed of nine nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor, one of whom shall be a representative of the Virginia Commercial Space Flight Authority as established in § [2.2-2202](/vacode/2.2-2202/). In addition, one ex officio member without voting privileges shall be selected by the Governor after consideration of the persons nominated by the U.S. Secretary of the Navy. With the exception of the representative of the Virginia Commercial Space Flight Authority, all members of the Authority shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.

B. Except as otherwise provided in this article, all appointments shall be for terms of four years each. No member shall be eligible to serve more than two successive four-year terms. After expiration of an initial term of three years or less, two additional four-year terms may be served by such member if appointed thereto. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be made for the unexpired terms. Any appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made in the same manner as the original appointment. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.

C. The Authority shall appoint from its membership a chairman and a vice-chairman, each of whom shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Authority. The chairman, or in his absence the vice-chairman, shall preside at each meeting of the Authority. The meetings of the Authority shall be held on the call of the chairman or whenever a majority of the members so request. A majority of members of the Authority serving at any one time shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.

D. Members shall serve without compensation. However, all members may be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). Such expenses shall be paid from such funds as may be appropriated to the Authority by the General Assembly.

E. Members of the Authority shall be subject to the standards of conduct set forth in the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (§ [2.2-3100](/vacode/2.2-3100/) et seq.) and may be removed from office for misfeasance, malfeasance, nonfeasance, neglect of duty, or misconduct in the manner set forth therein.

F. Except as otherwise provided in this article, members of the Authority shall be subject to the provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (§ [2.2-3700](/vacode/2.2-3700/) et seq.).

2010, cc. [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0507), [681](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0681), § 67-1202; 2011, c. [17](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0017); 2012, c. [502](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0502); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

