# ยง 45.2-834  Fan stoppage plan.

A fan stoppage plan shall be prepared for each mine. Such plan shall be subject to approval by the Chief or his designated representative. Failure to comply with any requirement set forth in the approved plan is a violation of this section. Each fan stoppage plan shall require the following:

1. When the main fan fails or stops, the power shall be cut off from the mine and miners shall be withdrawn from all face areas.

2. Miners shall be withdrawn from the underground areas if the ventilation is not restored within a reasonable time determined by the Chief, not to exceed 15 minutes. In determining such reasonable time period, the Chief shall consider, among other factors, the size and number of fans and the methane liberation rate of the mine.

3. If ventilation is restored within the time period established in the plan, each face area and any other area in which methane is likely to accumulate shall be examined by a certified person, and if all areas are found to be free of explosive or harmful gases, power may be restored and work resumed.

4. If ventilation is not restored within the time period established in the plan and the miners are evacuated from the mine, the main fan shall be operated for a period of time specified in the plan. Such period of time shall not be less than 15 minutes. Thereafter, the mine shall be examined by a certified person before any miner is permitted underground or any power circuit is energized.

Code 1950, ยง 45-60.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-54; 1978, c. 120; 1988, c. 597; 1993, c. 442; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), ยง 45.1-161.217; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

