# ยง 45.2-1044  Participation in Fund.

A. Participation in the Fund is open to any operator applying for a permit under this chapter who can demonstrate to the Director a history of at least three consecutive years of compliance under this chapter or any other comparable state or federal act.

B. Participation in the Fund is optional as to each permit application, and approval of such participation by the Division, upon payment by the operator of all entrance fees to the Fund required by this article, shall constitute compliance with all requirements of ยง [45.2-1016](/vacode/45.2-1016/) and regulations issued pursuant thereto. Such participation shall relieve the operator of all bonding requirements except those set forth in this article. Nothing in this article shall preclude compliance with ยง [45.2-1016](/vacode/45.2-1016/) in lieu of participation in the Fund, prior to commencement of such participation. Commencement of participation in the Fund, as to the applicable permit, constitutes an irrevocable commitment to participate therein as to the applicable permit and for the duration of the coal surface mining operations covered thereunder.

C. For any mining operation bonded under this article, the total cumulative amount of exposed highwall shall not exceed 1,500 linear feet. The width of the coal pit shall be limited to two mining cuts or 500 feet, whichever is less, measured perpendicular from the most advanced highwall to the coal outcrop or to the nearest point of rough backfilling and grading.

D. The Director may allow extended distances for rough backfilling and grading beyond those established in this section the applicant (i) can demonstrate to the Director a history of at least seven consecutive years of compliance with this chapter or with any other comparable state or federal act or (ii) submits a bond for the proposed additional area. The additional bond shall be equal to the ratio of the extended distance to the distance specified in subsection C, multiplied by an approved cost estimate of reclamation prepared for the permit.

1982, c. 334, ยง 45.1-270.2; 1983, c. 131; 1989, c. 432; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

