# § 45.2-1157  Notices of violations.

A. If the Director or a mine inspector has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of the Act has occurred, he shall with reasonable promptness issue a notice of violation to the person responsible for the violation. Each notice of violation shall be in writing, shall describe with particularity the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of the Mineral Mine Safety Act or the appropriate regulation violated, and shall include an order of abatement and set a reasonable time for abatement of the violation.

B. A copy of the notice of violation shall be delivered to the licensed operator or his agent or the mine foreman and to any independent contractor whose employees were exposed to a hazard related to the violation.

C. Upon a finding by the mine inspector of the completion of the action required to abate such violation, the Director or the mine inspector shall issue a notice of correction, a copy of which shall be delivered as provided in subsection B.

D. The notice of violation shall be deemed the final order of the Department and shall not be subject to review by any court or agency unless, within 20 days following its issuance, the person to whom the notice of violation was issued appeals its issuance by notifying the Department in writing that he intends to contest its issuance. The Department shall conduct informal conference or consultation proceedings, presided over by the Director, pursuant to § [2.2-4019](/vacode/2.2-4019/), unless the person and the Department agree to waive such a conference or proceeding to go directly to a formal hearing. If such a conference or proceeding is waived, or if it fails to dispose of the case by consent, the Department shall conduct a formal hearing pursuant to § [2.2-4020](/vacode/2.2-4020/). The formal hearing shall be presided over by a hearing officer pursuant to § [2.2-4024](/vacode/2.2-4024/), who shall recommend findings and an initial decision, which shall be subject to review and approval by the Director. Any party aggrieved by and claiming unlawfulness of such decision is entitled to judicial review pursuant to Article 5 (§ [2.2-4025](/vacode/2.2-4025/) et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act.

E. If it is finally determined that a notice of violation was not issued in accordance with the provisions of this section, such notice of violation shall be vacated and the improperly issued notice of violation shall not be used to the detriment of the person or the operator to whom it was issued.

1997, c. [390](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390), § 45.1-161.292:63; 1998, c. [695](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0695); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

