# ยง 45.2-720  Underground transportation of explosives and detonators.

A. Any explosives or detonators carried anywhere underground by any miner shall be in individual containers. Such containers shall be constructed substantially of nonconductive material, maintained in good condition, and kept closed.

B. Any explosives or detonators transported underground in a car that is moved by means of a locomotive or rope, or in a shuttle car, shall be in a substantially covered car or in a special substantially covered container used specifically for transporting explosives or detonators and only under the following conditions:

1. The body and cover of each such car and each such container shall be constructed or lined with nonconductive material;

2. If explosives and detonators are hauled in the same special explosives car or in the same special container, they shall be separated by a substantially fastened hardwood partition at least four inches thick or the equivalent barrier;

3. No explosives, detonators, or other blasting devices shall be transported on the same trip with any miner;

4. If explosives or detonators are transported in a special explosives car or a container in a car, they shall be hauled in a trip specifically for this purpose and not connected to any other trip; however, this provision shall not prohibit the use of such additional cars as needed to lower a rope trip or to haul supplies, including timbers. No materials so transported shall project above the top of the car. In no case shall flammable materials such as oil or grease be hauled on the same trip with explosives; and

5. No explosives or detonators shall be hauled into or out of a mine within five minutes preceding or following a mantrip or any other trip. If traveling against the air current, the mantrip shall precede the explosives trip; if traveling with the air current, the mantrip shall follow the explosives trip.

C. In a low coal seam where it is impractical to comply with the provisions of subsection B, explosives may be transported in the original and unopened case, or in suitable individual containers, to the underground distribution magazine.

D. Explosives and detonators shall be transported underground by belt under the following conditions only:

1. Each shall be transported in the original and unopened case, in a special closed case constructed of nonconductive material, or in a suitable individual container;

2. Clearance requirements shall be the same as those for transporting miners on belts;

3. Suitable loading and unloading stations with stop controls shall be provided; and

4. An authorized person shall supervise the loading and unloading of explosives or detonators.

E. No explosives or detonators shall be transported on a flight or shaking conveyor, scraper, mechanical loading machine, locomotive, cutting machine, or drill truck or on any self-propelled mobile equipment; however, this provision shall not prohibit the transportation of explosives or detonators in special closed containers in a shuttle car or in equipment designed specifically to transport such explosives or detonators.

Code 1950, ยง 45-53.3; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-46; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), ยง 45.1-161.127; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

