# § 45.2-1048  Collection of reclamation tax and penalties for nonpayment.

A. Payment of taxes under this section shall be made no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter when taxes are applicable in accordance with § [45.2-1046](/vacode/45.2-1046/). The Division shall notify each operator holding a permit under this chapter of those periods during which the taxes are applicable, provide forms for reporting coal production figures subject to taxes, and collect all taxes for the Fund.

B. Pursuant to regulations adopted by the Director, and consistent with the provisions of § [45.2-1024](/vacode/45.2-1024/), all funds paid into the Fund, and interest accrued to the Fund, shall be available for the completion of defaulted reclamation plans filed pursuant to § [45.2-1011](/vacode/45.2-1011/). From the interest accrued to the Fund, amounts sufficient to properly administer the Fund are hereby appropriated to the Division. The Director shall also adopt regulations for the implementation of this article and for the collection of taxes hereunder.

C. The Division, upon advance written request to an operator, may audit the relevant books and records of the operator upon which taxes paid under this section are based. Failure to consent to a reasonable request for the audit shall be deemed a violation of this article by the operator.

D. Upon the failure of an operator to pay taxes when due under this section, the Division shall issue a notice of violation pursuant to subsection B of § [45.2-1020](/vacode/45.2-1020/). The notice of violation shall state that upon failure of payment within 15 days thereafter, the Division shall issue a cessation order to the operator for failure to abate the notice of violation. Upon the issuance of the cessation order pursuant to subsection C of § [45.2-1020](/vacode/45.2-1020/), the enforcement procedures set forth in Article 2 (§ [45.2-1008](/vacode/45.2-1008/) et seq.) shall apply. Civil penalties imposed upon an operator pursuant to a violation of this article shall be placed in the Fund.

1982, c. 334, § 45.1-270.5; 1984, c. 590; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

