# ยง 45.2-758  Operation of equipment.

A. Every operator of self-propelled mobile haulage equipment shall face in the direction of travel except when the equipment is being loaded and is under the boom of the loading equipment.

B. Every track haulage car that requires coupling and uncoupling shall be equipped with automatic couplers or devices designed to allow coupling and uncoupling without exposing miners between such equipment. Specialty cars designed with safe clearance when connecting to other cars are excluded from the provisions of this subsection.

C. Every person operating self-propelled haulage equipment shall sound a warning before starting such equipment and on approaching any curve, sidetrack, door, curtain, manway crossing, or other place where a miner is or is likely to be.

D. All rail equipment shall be operated at speeds that are safe for the condition of any rail installation, grade, or clearance encountered. When rail equipment is being operated at a normal safe speed, a distance of 300 feet shall be maintained from the rear of other rail equipment in operation, except for a trailing locomotive that is an integral part of the trip.

E. All persons shall stand in the clear during any switching operation.

F. No two pieces of self-propelled mobile mining equipment traveling in opposite directions inside a coal mine shall be allowed to pass each other while both are in motion on the same haulage road unless a distance of at least two feet is maintained between the vehicles.

Code 1950, ยง 45-69.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-73; 1979, c. 315; 1983, c. 70; 1985, c. 302; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), ยง 45.1-161.147; 1996, c. [774](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774); 1999, c. [256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256); 2005, c. [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

