# § 45.2-746  Clearance on haulage roads.

A. Every track haulage road in an entry, room, or crosscut shall have a continuous clearance on one side of at least two feet from the farthest projection of moving traffic. The clearance shall be kept free of any obstruction to a height permitted by the height of the coal seam. When it is not possible to maintain such clearance, signs indicating close clearance shall be posted inby and outby the affected area.

B. Every track haulage road in an entry, room, or crosscut shall have a continuous clearance on the side opposite the clearance required by subsection A of at least six inches from the farthest projection of moving traffic. When it is not possible to maintain such clearance, signs indicating close clearance shall be posted inby and outby the affected area.

C. Each track haulage road where trolley lines are used shall have the clearance required by subsection A on the side of the track opposite the trolley lines. This requirement shall not apply if the trolley lines are at least 6.5 feet above the rail.

D. The clearance space on each track haulage road shall be kept free of loose rock, loose coal, loose supplies, and other loose materials. If the clearance space exceeds two feet, at least two feet of the clearance space shall be kept free of such materials.

E. Every parallel track shall be installed so as to provide a clearance of at least two feet between the outermost projections of passing traffic.

F. Ample clearance shall be provided (i) at each conveyor loading head, (ii) at each conveyor control panel, and (iii) along each conveyor line.

G. Every belt conveyor shall be equipped with a control switch to automatically stop the driving motor in the event that the belt is stopped by slipping on the driving pulley as a result of breakage or other accident.

Code 1950, §§ 45-14.1, 45-69.5; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, §§ 45.1-71, 45.1-89; 1974, c. 323; 1978, c. 118; 1984, c. 590; 1985, c. 500; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), § 45.1-161.135; 1996, c. [774](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774); 1999, c. [256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256); 2005, c. [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

