# § 45.2-577  Membership; terms; compensation; quorum; meetings.

A. The Virginia Coal Mine Safety Board shall have a total membership of 10 members that shall consist of nine nonlegislative citizen members appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, and one ex officio member. Nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed as follows: three to be appointed from a list of individuals nominated by the Metallurgical Coal Producers Association; three to be appointed from a list of individuals nominated by the United Mine Workers of America; and three to be appointed from the Commonwealth at large. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Board shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor and be residents of the Commonwealth.

B. The members of the Board shall elect its chairman. Members shall serve for terms of four years and their successors shall be appointed for terms of the same length, but vacancies occurring other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the unexpired term. Any member may be reappointed for successive terms. Members shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/). Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Department.

C. The Board shall hold meetings at times and places designated by the chairman. The chairman may call a meeting of the Board at any time and shall call a meeting of the Board within 20 days of receipt by the chairman of a written request for a meeting by another member of the Board. Notification of each meeting of the Board shall be given in writing to each member by the chairman at least five days in advance of the meeting. The chairman and any four or more members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business of the Board.

1990, c. 963, §§ 45.1-5.2, 45.1-5.3; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), §§ 45.1-161.98, [45](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0045).1-161.99; 2014, c. [438](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0438); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

