# § 45.2-701  Regulations governing conditions and practices at underground coal mines.

A. The Chief may, after consultation with the Virginia Coal Mine Safety Board, created by Article 9 (§ [45.2-576](/vacode/45.2-576/) et seq.) of Chapter 5, and in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 (§ [2.2-4006](/vacode/2.2-4006/) et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act, adopt regulations necessary to ensure safe and healthy working conditions in underground coal mines in the Commonwealth. Such regulations governing underground coal mines shall relate to:

1. The maintenance, operation, storage, and transportation of any mechanical or electrical equipment, device, or machinery used for any purpose in the underground mining of coal;

2. Safety and health standards for the protection of the life, health, and property of, and the prevention of injuries to, any person involved in or likely to be affected by any underground coal mining operation. Such standards shall include the control of dust concentration levels; the use of respiratory equipment and ventilating systems; the development and maintenance of roof control systems; the handling of combustible materials and rock dusting; the installation, maintenance, and use of electrical devices, equipment, cables, and wires; fire protection, including equipment, emergency evacuation plans, emergency shelters, and communication facilities; the use and storage of explosives; and the establishment and maintenance of barriers in underground coal mines around gas and oil wells. The Chief may adopt regulations setting forth specific occupations and conditions under which a miner is prohibited from working alone underground; and

3. The storage or disposal of any matter or materials (i) extracted or disturbed as the result of an underground coal mining operation or (ii) used in the mining operation or for the refinement or preparation of the materials extracted from the coal mining operation, so that such matter or material does not threaten the health or safety of the miners or the general public.

B. The Chief shall not adopt any regulation establishing any requirement for the operation of, or conditions at, an underground coal mine that is inconsistent with requirements established by the Act.

Code 1950, §§ 45-8, 45-84; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, § 45.1-104; 1972, c. 784; 1974, c. 323; 1975, c. 520; 1978, c. 120; 1982, c. 118; 1990, c. 963; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), § 45.1-161.106; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

