# § 45.2-1164  Reports of violations.

A. Any person aware of a violation of this chapter or Chapter 14 (§ [45.2-1400](/vacode/45.2-1400/) et seq.) or 15 (§ [45.2-1500](/vacode/45.2-1500/) et seq.) may report the violation to a mine inspector or to any other employee of the Department, in person, in writing, or by telephone call, at the mine, at an office of the Department, or at the mine inspector's residence.

B. Each operator, or his agent, shall deliver a copy of this chapter and Chapters 14 (§ [45.2-1400](/vacode/45.2-1400/) et seq.) and 15 (§ [45.2-1500](/vacode/45.2-1500/) et seq.) to each miner in his employ upon the commencement of the miner's work at a mine, unless the miner is already in possession of a copy.

C. The licensed operator of each mine, or his agent, shall display on a sign placed at the mine office, at the bath house, and on a bulletin board at a prominent place at the mine site where it can be read conveniently by the miners, a notice containing the office and home telephone numbers of mine inspectors and other Department personnel, and office addresses, that may be used to report any violation of this chapter or Chapter 14 (§ [45.2-1400](/vacode/45.2-1400/) et seq.) or 15 (§ [45.2-1500](/vacode/45.2-1500/) et seq.).

D. The Department shall keep a record, on a form prepared for such purpose, of every alleged violation of this chapter or Chapter 14 (§ [45.2-1400](/vacode/45.2-1400/) et seq.) or 15 (§ [45.2-1500](/vacode/45.2-1500/) et seq.) that is reported and the results of any investigation. The Department shall give a copy of the complaint form, with the identity of the person making the report omitted or deleted, to the licensed operator of the mine or his agent and to any independent contractor who is alleged to have committed the violation. The Department shall not disclose the identity of any person who reports an alleged violation to the owner or operator of the mine or his agent or to any other person or entity. Information regarding the identity of the person reporting a violation is excluded from the mandatory disclosure provisions of the Virginia Freedom of Information Act (§ [2.2-3700](/vacode/2.2-3700/) et seq.).

1997, c. [390](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390), § 45.1-161.292:70; 1998, c. [695](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0695); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

