# § 45.2-1711  Schedule for the Plan.

A. The Division shall complete the Plan.

B. Prior to the completion of the Plan and each update thereof, the Division shall present drafts to, and consult with, the Virginia Coal and Energy Commission established pursuant to Chapter 25 (§ [30-188](/vacode/30-188/) et seq.) of Title 30 and the Commission on Electric Utility Regulation established pursuant to Chapter 31 (§ [30-201](/vacode/30-201/) et seq.) of Title 30.

C. The Plan shall be updated by the Division and submitted as provided in § [45.2-1713](/vacode/45.2-1713/) by October 1, 2014, and every fourth October 1 thereafter. In addition, the Division shall provide interim updates on the Plan by October 1 of the third year of each Governor's administration. Updated reports shall specify any progress attained toward each proposed action of the Plan, as well as reassess goals for energy conservation on the basis of progress to date in meeting the goals in the previous Plan and lessons learned from attempts to meet such goals.

D. Beginning with the Plan update in 2014, the Division shall include a section setting forth energy policy positions relevant to any potential regulations proposed or promulgated by the State Air Pollution Control Board to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units under § 111(d) of the federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7411(d). In such section of the Plan, the Division shall address policy options for establishing separate standards of performance pursuant to § 111(d) of the federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7411(d), for carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units to promote the Plan's overall goal of fuel diversity as follows:

1. The Plan shall address policy options for establishing the standards of performance for existing coal-fired electric generating units, including the following factors:

a. The most suitable system of emission reduction that (i) takes into consideration (a) the cost and benefit of achieving such reduction, (b) any non-air quality health and environmental impacts, and (c) the energy requirements of the Commonwealth and (ii) has been adequately demonstrated for coal-fired electric generating units that are subject to the standard of performance;

b. Reductions in emissions of carbon dioxide that can be achieved through measures reasonably undertaken at each coal-fired electric generating unit; and

c. Increased efficiencies and other measures that can be implemented at each coal-fired electric generating unit to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from the unit without converting from coal to other fuels, co-firing other fuels with coal, or limiting the utilization of the unit.

2. The Plan shall also address policy options for establishing the standards of performance for existing gas-fired electric generating units, including the following factors:

a. The application of the criteria specified in subdivisions 1 a and b to natural gas-fired electric generating units instead of to coal-fired electric generating units; and

b. Increased efficiencies and other measures that can be reasonably implemented at the unit to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from the unit without switching from natural gas to other lower-carbon fuels or limiting the utilization of the unit.

3. The Plan shall examine policy options for state regulatory action to adopt less stringent standards or longer compliance schedules than those provided for in applicable federal rules or guidelines based on analysis of the following:

a. Consumer impacts, including any disproportionate impacts of energy price increases on lower-income populations;

b. Unreasonable cost of reducing emissions resulting from plant age, location, or basic process design;

c. Physical difficulties with or impossibility of implementing emission reduction measures;

d. The absolute cost of applying the performance standard to the unit;

e. The expected remaining useful life of the unit;

f. The economic impacts of closing the unit, including expected job losses, if the unit is unable to comply with the performance standard; and

g. Any other factors specific to the unit that make application of a less stringent standard or longer compliance schedule more reasonable.

4. The Plan shall identify options, to the maximum extent permissible, for any federally required regulation of carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired electric generating units and regulatory mechanisms that provide flexibility in complying with such standards, including the averaging of emissions, emissions trading, or other alternative implementation measures that are determined to further the interests of the Commonwealth and its citizens.

2006, c. [939](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0939), § 67-202; 2008, cc. [651](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0651), [883](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0883); 2014, cc. [161](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0161), [419](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0419), [603](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0603), [756](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0756); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [326](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0326), [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

