# ยง 45.2-813  Trailing cables.

A. Trailing cables that are used underground shall be flame-resistant.

B. Trailing cables shall be provided with suitable short-circuit protection and some means of disconnecting power from the cable. Any power connection that is made in other than an intake airway shall be by means of a permissible connector.

C. Any temporary splice in a trailing cable shall be made in a workmanlike manner and shall be mechanically strong and well insulated.

D. No more than one temporary, unvulcanized splice shall be allowed in any trailing cable.

E. Any permanent splice or repair in a trailing cable shall:

1. Be mechanically strong, with adequate electrical conductivity and flexibility;

2. Be effectively insulated and sealed so as to exclude moisture;

3. Be vulcanized or otherwise treated with suitable materials to provide flame-resistant properties and good bonding to the outer jacket; and

4. If the cable has metallic shielding around each conductor, possess new shielding that is equivalent to the original shielding.

F. Trailing cables shall be protected against mechanical damage. A trailing cable that is damaged in a manner that exposes the insulated inner power conductors shall be repaired promptly or removed from service.

Code 1950, ยง 45-82.5; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-84; 1978, c. 118; 1993, c. 442; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), ยง 45.1-161.194; 1999, c. [256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256); 2005, c. [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

