# § 45.2-707  Mining in proximity to gas or oil wells.

A. Except as provided in subsection D, an operator who plans to remove coal, drive any passage or entry, or extend any workings in any mine within 500 feet of any gas or oil well already drilled into the projected mine workings or in the process of being drilled into the projected mine workings shall file with the Chief a notice that such mining is taking place or will take place. The notice shall include a copy of parts of the maps and plans required under § [45.2-542](/vacode/45.2-542/) that show the mine workings or projected mine workings that are within 500 feet of the well. The operator shall simultaneously mail copies of such notice, maps, and plans by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the well operator and the Gas and Oil Inspector appointed pursuant to § [45.2-1604](/vacode/45.2-1604/). Each notice shall contain a certification made by the operator that he has complied with the provisions of this subsection.

B. Subsequent to the filing of the notice required by subsection A, the operator may proceed with mining operations in accordance with the maps and plans; however, without the prior approval of the Chief, he shall not remove any coal, drive any entry, or extend any workings in any mine within 200 feet of any gas or oil well already drilled or in the process of being drilled into the projected mine workings.

C. The Chief shall adopt regulations that prescribe the procedure to be followed by mine operators in petitioning the Chief for approval to conduct such activities within 200 feet of a gas or oil well or a vertical ventilation hole drilled or in the process of being drilled into the projected mine workings. Each operator who files such a petition shall mail copies of the petition, maps, and plans by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the well operator and the Gas and Oil Inspector no later than the day of filing. The Gas and Oil Inspector and the operator of the gas or oil well or vertical ventilation hole shall have standing to object to any petition filed under this section. Such objection shall be filed within 10 days following the date such petition is filed.

D. Procedures for safely mining in proximity to or through a coalbed methane well or a vertical ventilation hole developed for methane drainage in a mine shall be addressed in the bleeder system plan for that mine required by § [45.2-837](/vacode/45.2-837/).

1990, c. 92, § 45.1-92.1; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), § 45.1-161.121; 1999, c. [256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

