# ยง 45.2-1032  Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund, referred to in this article as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller and shall be administered by the Director.

B. All funds granted by the Secretary for purposes of conducting the approved State Reclamation Plan and annual reclamation projects; use fees charged for uses of lands acquired or reclaimed pursuant to this article, after expenditures for maintenance have been deducted; moneys recovered through the satisfaction of liens filed against privately owned land pursuant to this article; moneys recovered from sale of lands acquired by the Director pursuant to this article; and donations made for the purposes of this article and other moneys made available or appropriated to the Director for such purposes shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund.

C. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund.

D. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purpose of carrying out the State Reclamation Program as approved by the Secretary. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director.

1979, c. 290, ยง 45.1-261; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

