# ยง 45.2-618  Design and construction of retaining dam or mine refuse impoundment; designs and other data to be submitted to Chief.

A. Any new retaining dam or mine refuse impoundment, or the modification of an existing retaining dam or mine refuse impoundment, shall be designed and constructed by or under the direction of a licensed professional engineer. Such requirement shall only apply to a mine refuse impoundment if it is designed to impound water, coal slurry, or silt (i) to an elevation of five feet or more above the upstream toe of the structure and has a storage volume of 20 acre-feet or more or (ii) to an elevation of 20 feet or more measured at the open channel spillway or from the crest of the dam in a closed system, regardless of storage volume. The design, construction specifications, and other related data, including final abandonment plans for such retaining dam or mine refuse impoundment, shall be certified by the licensed professional engineer.

B. No person shall place, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, or abandon any retaining dam or mine refuse impoundment until the operator has filed an application for and received approval from the Chief for such construction or modification. However, routine repairs that do not affect the engineering design criteria or safety of an approved retaining dam or mine refuse impoundment are not subject to such application and approval requirements.

1974, c. 323, ยง 45.1-222; 1984, c. 590; 1999, c. [256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0256); 2005, c. [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0003); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

