# ยง 45.2-110  Powers and duties of the Division.

The Division has the following powers and duties:

1. Examination of the geological formations of the Commonwealth and the resources contained therein, with special reference to both economic products and energy resources, including coal, ore, clay, feldspar, lime, natural gas, oil, cement, sand and gravel, stone, materials suitable for use in building and road construction, mineral water, other mineral substances, and geothermal energy resources.

2. Examination of latent resources and waste minerals to determine the best methods of utilizing them and study of the soils and weathered residuum as related to parent rock.

3. Maintenance of repositories for representative rock and mineral materials from various wells, mines, excavations, and naturally occurring exposures.

4. Maintenance of records and statistics of the mineral industry and geological conditions of the Commonwealth.

5. Performance of chemical and physical tests, including test borings, to acquire subsurface information relative to mineral deposits masked by soils and rock overburden.

6. Examination of the physical features of the Commonwealth with reference to their practical bearing upon the occupation and well-being of the people.

7. Preparation of special geological and economic maps and displays to illustrate the resources of the Commonwealth.

8. Preparation of regular and special reports, with necessary illustrations and maps, that embrace both a general and detailed description of the geology and mineral resources of the Commonwealth.

9. Consideration of such other scientific and economic questions that in the judgment of the Director are deemed of value to the people of the Commonwealth.

10. Arrangement for the investigation and reporting of the geology of the Commonwealth with the Director or the representative of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) in regard to cooperation between the USGS and the Department in topographic and geologic work when deemed necessary and of advantage to the Commonwealth. The Director may accept or reject the work of the USGS.

11. Participation in matters requiring advice and guidance sought by state agencies and institutions concerning geological and mineral resources as related to state lands.

12. Provision of basic research and the development of methods utilized in the determination of characteristics, structure, and origin for geological formations and economic mineral deposits.

1984, c. 590, ยง 45.1-386; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

