# § 45.2-2105  Establishment of the Consortium.

A. The Board shall provide for the formation, by January 1, 2014, of a nonstock corporation under Chapter 10 (§ [13.1-801](/vacode/13.1-801/) et seq.) of Title 13.1, not organized for profit, that shall include in its name the words "Virginia Nuclear Energy Consortium" or some variation thereof that is approved by the Board.

B. The Consortium shall be established for the purpose of conducting activities useful in (i) making the Commonwealth a leader in nuclear energy; (ii) serving as an interdisciplinary study, research, and information resource for the Commonwealth on nuclear energy issues; and (iii) carrying out the provisions of this article, including raising money on behalf of the Authority in the corporate and nonprofit community and from other nonstate sources.

C. The membership of the Consortium shall be open to:

1. Public or private institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth;

2. Commonwealth-based federal research laboratories;

3. Nuclear energy-related nonprofit organizations;

4. Business entities with operating facilities located in the Commonwealth that are engaged in activities directly related to the nuclear energy industry; and

5. Other individuals or entities whose membership is approved by the board of directors of the Consortium through a process established by the bylaws of the Consortium.

D. The board of directors of the Consortium shall consist of members selected and approved by the Consortium pursuant to a process established by its bylaws.

E. The board of directors of the Consortium shall appoint an executive director to serve as the principal administrative officer of the Consortium. The executive director shall carry out the specific duties assigned to him by the board of directors and develop appropriate policies and procedures for the operation of the Consortium; employ persons and secure services as required to carry out the purposes of the Consortium; expend funds as authorized by the Authority; and accept moneys from federal or private sources on behalf of the Authority, including moneys contributed by Consortium members to the Authority, for cost-sharing on nuclear energy research or projects. The executive director and any other employee of the Consortium (i) shall be compensated in the manner provided by the board of directors of the Authority, (ii) shall not be subject to the provisions of the Virginia Personnel Act (§ [2.2-2900](/vacode/2.2-2900/) et seq.), and (iii) shall not be deemed to be an officer or employee for purposes of the State and Local Government Conflict of Interests Act (§ [2.2-3100](/vacode/2.2-3100/) et seq.).

F. The articles of incorporation of the Consortium shall provide that upon dissolution the net assets of the Consortium shall be transferred to the Authority.

G. The Consortium shall not be deemed to be a state or governmental agency, advisory agency, public body, or agency or instrumentality for purposes of Chapter 8 (§ [2.2-800](/vacode/2.2-800/) et seq.), 18 (§ [2.2-1800](/vacode/2.2-1800/) et seq.), 24 (§ [2.2-2400](/vacode/2.2-2400/) et seq.), 29 (§ [2.2-2900](/vacode/2.2-2900/) et seq.), 31 (§ [2.2-3100](/vacode/2.2-3100/) et seq.), 37 (§ [2.2-3700](/vacode/2.2-3700/) et seq.), 38 (§ [2.2-3800](/vacode/2.2-3800/) et seq.), 43 (§ [2.2-4300](/vacode/2.2-4300/) et seq.), 44 (§ [2.2-4400](/vacode/2.2-4400/) et seq.), 45 (§ [2.2-4500](/vacode/2.2-4500/) et seq.), 46 (§ [2.2-4600](/vacode/2.2-4600/) et seq.), or 47 (§ [2.2-4700](/vacode/2.2-4700/) et seq.) of Title 2.2, Chapter 14 (§ [30-130](/vacode/30-130/) et seq.) of Title 30, or Chapter 1 (§ [51.1-124.1](/vacode/51.1-124.1/) et seq.) of Title 51.1.

H. The board of directors of the Consortium shall adopt, alter, and repeal bylaws governing the manner in which its business shall be transacted and the manner in which the activities of the Consortium shall be conducted.

I. The Consortium shall report on all of its nonproprietary activities at least twice a year to the Authority.

2013, cc. [57](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0057), [394](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0394), § 67-1404; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

