# ยง 45.2-914  Fire precautions.

A. An examination for fire shall be made after every blasting operation.

B. No person shall smoke or use an open flame within 25 feet of any location used to handle or store flammable or combustible liquids or where an arc or flame could cause a fire or explosion.

C. Any area surrounding a flammable liquid storage tank or electrical substation or transformer shall be kept free of combustible material for at least 25 feet in every direction. Each such storage tank, substation, or transformer shall be posted with readily visible fire hazard warning signs.

D. Any structure or area used for storage of flammable materials shall be constructed of fire resistant material; kept well-ventilated, clean, and orderly; and posted with readily visible fire hazard warning signs.

E. Every fuel line shall be equipped with a shut-off valve at its source. Each such valve shall be readily accessible and maintained in good operating condition.

F. Every battery charging area shall be well-ventilated and posted with warning signs prohibiting smoking or open flames within 25 feet.

G. Oil, grease, flammable hydraulic fluid, and other flammable materials shall be kept in closed metal containers and separated from other materials so as to not create a fire hazard.

H. Combustible materials, grease, lubricants, paints, and other flammable materials and liquids shall not be allowed to accumulate where they could create a fire hazard. Provision shall be made to prevent the accumulation of such material on any equipment, at any storage area, and at any location where the material is used.

I. Electric motors, switches, lighting fixtures, and controls shall be protected by dust-tight construction.

J. Precautions shall be taken to ensure that no spark or other hot material results in a fire when welding or cutting. No welding or cutting with an arc or flame shall be done in any excessively dusty atmosphere or location. Firefighting apparatus shall be readily available when welding or cutting is performed.

K. Precautions shall be taken before applying heat, cutting, or welding on any pipe or container that has contained a flammable or combustible material.

L. Every oxygen or acetylene bottle shall be (i) stored in a rack constructed and designated for the storage of such bottles with their caps in place and (ii) secured when not in use. Such bottles shall not be stored near oil, grease, or other flammable material.

M. Every oxygen and acetylene gauge and regulator shall be kept clean and free of oil, grease, and other combustible materials.

N. Every belt conveyor shall be equipped with a control switch to automatically stop the driving motor of the conveyor in the event that the belt is stopped by slipping on the driving pulley as a result of breakage or other accident.

O. The area surrounding every main fan installation or other mine opening shall be kept free from grass, weeds, underbrush, and other combustible materials for 25 feet in every direction.

P. Every internal combustion engine, except a diesel engine, shall be shut off prior to fueling.

Code 1950, ยง 45-85.9; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-39; 1978, c. 729; 1994, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028), ยง 45.1-161.267; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

