# ยง 45.2-1047  Special assessment.

A. In addition to the tax assessed pursuant to ยง [45.2-1046](/vacode/45.2-1046/), and in order to ensure Fund solvency, the Director of the Division shall require each permittee to pay any special assessment made pursuant to subsection B.

B. On and after July 1, 1990, the Director of the Division shall assess each permit in the Fund the amount of $500. Such assessment shall be made only one time and all revenues collected shall be applied to the balance of the Fund. The permittee shall be responsible for payment of the assessment.

C. On or after July 1, 1991, the Director of the Division shall assess an amount not to exceed $500,000. The amount of the assessment shall be $250 for each permit participating in the Fund that has completed all mining activity and for which a completion report has been approved. The remaining assessments shall be made in equal amounts per acre for each disturbed acre permitted under the Fund. The amount of disturbed acreage for each permit shall be determined by the most recent anniversary map, or updated anniversary map, submitted by the permittee to the Division prior to July 1, 1991. The assessments under subsection B and this subsection shall not apply to acreage that has been reclaimed and for which an increment of the bond has been transferred to other acreage in the permit. The assessments under subsection B and this subsection shall be made only one time and all revenues collected shall be applied to the balance of the Fund. The permittee shall be responsible for payment of the assessment.

D. Failure to tender moneys assessed pursuant to the provisions of this section within 30 calendar days of assessment shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Any civil penalties collected for violations of this section shall be applied to the balance of the Fund.

1990, c. 427, ยง 45.1-270.4:1; 1991, c. 495; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

