# § 45.2-1614  Additional duties and responsibilities of the Board.

A. In executing its duties under this chapter, the Board shall:

1. Foster, encourage, and promote the safe and efficient exploration for and development, production, and conservation of gas and oil resources located in the Commonwealth;

2. Administer a method of gas and oil conservation for the purpose of maximizing exploration, development, production, and utilization of gas and oil resources;

3. Administer procedures for the recognition and protection of the rights of gas or oil owners with interests in gas or oil resources contained within a pool;

4. Promote the maximum production and recovery of coal without substantially affecting the right of a gas owner proposing a gas well to explore for and produce gas; and

5. Hear and decide appeals of the Director's decisions and orders issued under Article 3 (§ [45.2-1629](/vacode/45.2-1629/) et seq.).

B. Without limiting its general authority, the Board has the specific authority to issue regulations or orders pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) in order to:

1. Prevent waste through the design, spacing, or unitization of wells, pools, or fields.

2. Protect correlative rights.

3. Enter spacing and pooling orders.

4. Establish drilling units.

5. Establish maximum allowable production rates for the prevention of waste and the protection of correlative rights.

6. Provide for the maximum recovery of coal.

7. Classify pools and wells as gas, oil, gas and oil, or coalbed methane gas.

8. Collect data, make investigations and inspections, examine property, leases, papers, books, and records, and require or provide for the keeping of records and the making of reports.

9. Set application fees.

10. Govern practices and procedures before the Board.

11. Require additional data from parties to any hearing.

12. Take actions reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

1982, c. 347, § 45.1-296; 1987, c. 452; 1990, c. 92, § 45.1-361.15; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

