# § 46.2-744 Special license plates for members of National Guard; fees.

On receipt of an application and written confirmation that the applicant is a member of the National Guard, the Commissioner shall issue to the applicant special license plates.

No fee shall be charged for license plates issued under this section to a member of the Virginia National Guard for any one motor vehicle owned and used personally by the applicant, unless the plates bear reserved numbers or letters as provided for in § [46.2-726](/vacode/46.2-726/). In this latter case, the fee for the issuance of license plates shall be the same as for those issued under § [46.2-726](/vacode/46.2-726/). For each additional set of license plates issued to an applicant under this section, the Commissioner shall charge the prescribed fee for state license plates.

The fee for members of non-Virginia National Guard units shall be ten dollars per year plus the prescribed cost for state license plates, unless the plates bear reserved numbers or letters as provided for in § [46.2-726](/vacode/46.2-726/). In this latter case, such license plates shall be subject to an additional charge of ten dollars per year for the reserved numbers or letters.

The provisions of subdivisions 1 and 2 of subsection B of § [46.2-725](/vacode/46.2-725/) shall not apply to license plates issued under this section.

1981, c. 355, § 46.1-105.9; 1982, c. 85; 1989, c. 727; 1995, cc. [252](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0252), [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0747); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [153](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0153).

