# § 46.2-345.3 (Effective July 1, 2023) Issuance of identification privilege cards; fee; confidentiality; penalties.

A. Upon application of any person who does not hold a status that is eligible for a special identification card under subsections A and B of § [46.2-328.1](/vacode/46.2-328.1/), the parent of any such person who is under the age of 18, or the legal guardian of any such person, the Department may issue an identification privilege card to any resident of the Commonwealth, provided that:

1. Application is made on a form prescribed by the Department;

2. The applicant presents, when required by the Department, proof of identity, residency, and social security number or individual taxpayer identification number;

3. The Department determines that the applicant has reported income and deductions from Virginia sources, as defined in § [58.1-302](/vacode/58.1-302/), or has been claimed as a dependent, on an individual income tax return filed with the Commonwealth in the preceding 12 months; and

4. The applicant does not hold a credential issued under this chapter.

Persons 70 years of age or older may exchange a valid Virginia driver privilege card for an identification privilege card at no fee. Identification privilege cards subsequently issued to such persons shall be subject to the regular fees for identification privilege cards.

B. The fee for the issuance of an original, duplicate, reissue, or renewal identification privilege card is $25. The amount paid by an applicant for an identification privilege card shall be considered privileged information for the purposes of § [46.2-208](/vacode/46.2-208/).

C. An original identification privilege card shall expire on the applicant's fourth birthday following the date of issuance. Duplicate, reissue, or renewal identification privilege cards shall be valid for a period of four years from the date of issuance. No applicant shall be required to provide proof of compliance with subdivision A 3 for a duplicate, reissue, or renewal identification privilege card. Those cards issued to children under the age of 15 shall expire on the child's sixteenth birthday.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, the Commissioner may extend the validity period of an expiring card if (i) the Department is unable to process an application for renewal due to circumstances beyond its control and (ii) the extension has been authorized under a directive from the Governor. However, in no event shall the validity period be extended more than 90 days per occurrence of such conditions.

D. An identification privilege card issued under this section may be similar in size, shape, and design to a driving credential and include a photograph of its holder, but the card shall be readily distinguishable from a driving credential and shall clearly state that it does not authorize the person to whom it is issued to drive a motor vehicle. Every applicant for an identification privilege card shall appear in person before the Department to apply for a renewal, duplicate, or reissue unless specifically permitted by the Department to apply in another manner. The front of an identification privilege card shall be identical in appearance to a special identification card issued under § [46.2-345](/vacode/46.2-345/), and the back of the card shall be identical in appearance to the restriction on the back of a limited-duration special identification card.

E. Identification privilege cards, for persons at least 15 years old but younger than 21 years old, shall be immediately and readily distinguishable from those issued to persons 21 years old or older. Distinguishing characteristics shall include unique design elements of the credential and descriptors within the photograph area to identify persons who are at least 15 years old but younger than 21 years old. These descriptors shall include the month, day, and year when the person will become 21 years old.

F. Identification privilege cards for persons under age 15 shall bear a full-face photograph. The identification card issued to persons under age 15 shall be readily distinguishable from a driving credential and from other identification cards issued by the Department. Such cards shall clearly indicate that it does not authorize the person to whom it is issued to drive a motor vehicle.

G. Any information collected pursuant to this section that is not otherwise collected by the Department or required for the issuance of any other special identification card issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and any information regarding restrictions in the Department's records related to the issuance of a credential issued pursuant to this section shall be considered privileged. Notwithstanding the provisions of § [46.2-208](/vacode/46.2-208/), such information shall not be released except upon request by the subject of the information, the parent of a minor who is the subject of the information, the guardian of the subject of the information, or the authorized representative of the subject of the information or pursuant to a court order.

The Department shall release to any federal, state, or local governmental entity, local government group self-insurance pool, law-enforcement officer, attorney for the Commonwealth, or court, or the authorized agent of any of the foregoing, information related to the issuance of an identification privilege card, the release of which is not otherwise prohibited by this section, that is required for a requester to carry out the requester's official functions if the requester provides the individual's name and other sufficient identifying information contained on the individual's record. Any such release shall be in accordance with the requirements of § [46.2-208](/vacode/46.2-208/).

H. Any person who uses a false or fictitious name or gives a false or fictitious address in any application for an identification privilege card or knowingly makes a false statement or conceals a material fact or otherwise commits a fraud in any such application is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. However, where the name or address is given, or false statement is made, or fact is concealed, or fraud committed, for the purpose of committing any offense punishable as a felony, a violation of this section shall constitute a Class 4 felony.

I. When requested by the applicant, the applicant's parent if the applicant is a minor, or the applicant's guardian, and upon presentation of a signed statement by a licensed physician confirming the applicant's condition, the Department shall indicate on the applicant's identification privilege card that the applicant has any condition listed in subsection K of § [46.2-342](/vacode/46.2-342/) or that the applicant is blind or vision impaired.

J. The Department shall establish a method by which an applicant for an original, reissued, or renewed identification privilege card may indicate his blood type. If the applicant chooses to indicate his blood type, the Department shall make a notation of this designation on his identification privilege card and in his record. Such notation on the special identification card shall only be used by emergency medical services agencies in providing emergency medical support. Upon written request of the license holder or his legal guardian to have the designation removed, the Department shall issue the identification privilege card without such designation upon the payment of applicable fees.

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department shall not disclose any data collected pursuant to this subsection except to the subject of the information and by designation on the identification privilege card. Nothing herein shall require the Department to verify any information provided for the designation. No action taken by any person, whether private citizen or public officer or employee, with regard to any blood type designation displayed on an identification privilege card, shall create a warranty of the reliability or accuracy of the document or electronic image, nor shall it create any liability on the part of the Commonwealth or of any department, office, or agency or of any officer, employee, or agent thereof.

K. Unless the context of the Code provides otherwise, an identification privilege card shall be treated as a special identification card.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [544](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0544); 2022, c. [796](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0796).

