# § 46.2-707.1 Noncompliance fee payment plan.

A. The Department may establish a noncompliance fee payment plan to allow individuals to pay the fees for a motor vehicle determined to be uninsured as prescribed in § [46.2-706](/vacode/46.2-706/), [46.2-707](/vacode/46.2-707/), or [46.2-708](/vacode/46.2-708/). Notwithstanding §§ [46.2-706](/vacode/46.2-706/), [46.2-707](/vacode/46.2-707/), and [46.2-708](/vacode/46.2-708/), an individual 18 years of age or older whose driver's license and vehicle registration have been suspended pursuant to § [46.2-706](/vacode/46.2-706/), [46.2-707](/vacode/46.2-707/), or [46.2-708](/vacode/46.2-708/) may apply to the Department to enter into a payment plan agreement with a duration of no more than three years from the agreement date, referred to in this section as the "payment plan period."

B. To be eligible to enter into the payment plan, the individual must (i) have one or more outstanding suspensions of driving privileges pursuant to the provisions of § [46.2-706](/vacode/46.2-706/), [46.2-707](/vacode/46.2-707/), or [46.2-708](/vacode/46.2-708/) and have no other outstanding suspensions or revocations; (ii) meet all other conditions for reinstatement of driving privileges; and (iii) have not defaulted twice on the same uninsured motor vehicle payment plan agreement.

C. An eligible individual who pays a $25 administrative fee when entering into a payment plan agreement or when reentering into a payment plan agreement with the Department, and pays the reinstatement fee pursuant to §§ [46.2-333.1](/vacode/46.2-333.1/) and [46.2-411](/vacode/46.2-411/), if required, shall be eligible to have his driving privileges reinstated by the Department.

D. The amount and frequency of each payment and the duration of the payment plan shall be described in the payment plan agreement signed by the Department and the individual. Payments may be made in person, online, by telephone, or by mail. The full fee must be paid in no more than three years from the agreement date; however, an individual may repay the balance of the fee at any time during the payment plan period with no penalty.

E. If an individual defaults on the payment plan agreement, the Commissioner shall suspend the driver's license and all registration certificates and license plates issued to the owner of the motor vehicle determined to be uninsured. Such driver's license, registration certificates, and license plates shall remain suspended until the individual pays the balance of the fee applicable to the registration of an uninsured motor vehicle as prescribed in § [46.2-706](/vacode/46.2-706/), [46.2-707](/vacode/46.2-707/), or [46.2-708](/vacode/46.2-708/) and furnishes proof of future financial responsibility as prescribed by Article 15 (§ [46.2-435](/vacode/46.2-435/) et seq.) of Chapter 3. An individual is in default if he (i) pays an installment payment late as defined in the payment plan agreement or (ii) fails to make an installment payment as agreed to in the payment plan agreement. If an individual is in default and is ineligible to reenter the payment plan, full payment of the balance of the fee shall be due as agreed to in the payment plan agreement. The Commissioner may extend the due date of any installment payment for not more than 30 days if the Department is unable to process an installment payment due to circumstances beyond its control.

F. When all fees are paid, the individual shall continue to furnish proof of financial responsibility pursuant to Article 15 (§ [46.2-435](/vacode/46.2-435/) et seq.) of Chapter 3 and § [46.2-709](/vacode/46.2-709/).

G. Installment payments of the fee with respect to the motor vehicle determined to be uninsured shall be disposed of pursuant to § [46.2-710](/vacode/46.2-710/). The administrative fee shall be paid to the Commissioner and deposited into the state treasury account set aside in a special fund to be used to meet the necessary expenses incurred by the Department.

2016, c. [590](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0590); 2019, cc. [149](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0149), [193](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0193).

