# ยง 46.2-612 Failure to surrender revoked certificate of title, registration card, license plates or decals; other offenses relating to registration, licensing, and certificates of title; penalties.

A. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer, for which license plates, decals, or registration cards have been revoked pursuant to this article, to fail or refuse to surrender to the Department, on demand, a certificate of title if it is incorrect in any material particular. Violation of this subsection shall constitute a Class 2 misdemeanor.

B. No person shall:

1. Display or cause or permit to be displayed any registration card, certificate of title, or license plate or decal that he knows is fictitious or that he knows has been canceled, revoked, suspended, or altered; or display or cause or permit to be displayed on any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer any license plate or decal that he knows is currently issued for another vehicle. Violation of this subdivision shall constitute a Class 2 misdemeanor.

2. Fail or refuse to surrender to the Department or the Department of State Police, on demand, any certificate of title, registration card, or license plate or decal that has been suspended, canceled, or revoked. Violation of this subdivision shall constitute a Class 2 misdemeanor.

3. Use a false name or address in any application for the registration of any motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer, for a certificate of title, or for any renewal or duplicate certificate or knowingly make a false statement of a material fact, knowingly conceal a material fact, or otherwise commit a fraud in any registration application. Violation of this subdivision shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.

Code 1950, ยง 46-61; 1958, c. 541, ยง 46.1-62; 1962, c. 302; 1972, c. 609; 1989, c. 727; 2019, cc. [71](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0071), [79](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0079).

