# § 46.2-204 Medical Advisory Board.

For the purpose of enabling the Department of Motor Vehicles to comply with its responsibilities under this title, there is hereby created a Medical Advisory Board for the Department. The Board shall consist of seven licensed physicians currently practicing medicine in Virginia appointed by the Governor. Appointments to the Board shall be for four-year terms and vacancies shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired portion of a term. The Governor shall designate the chairman of the Board.

The Commissioner may refer to the Board for an advisory opinion the case of any person applying for a driver's license or renewal thereof, or of any person whose license has been suspended or revoked, or of any person being examined under the provisions of § [46.2-322](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-322/), when he has cause to believe that such person suffers from a physical or mental disability or disease which will prevent his exercising reasonable and ordinary control over a motor vehicle while driving it on the highways. The Medical Advisory Board shall provide guidance and recommendations to the Department regarding any case of a person examined under the provisions of § [46.2-322](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-322/) who appeals the outcome of the examination pursuant to § [46.2-321](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-321/) if the basis for such appeal is related to the medical evidence in the case. However, appeals related to the examinee's (i) failure to follow procedures, (ii) failure to pass knowledge or behind-the-wheel tests, or (iii) evaluation by a driver rehabilitation specialist are not required to be referred to the Board. The Board shall submit to the Department its recommendations for consideration prior to the scheduled appeal proceedings. In addition, the Board shall assist the Commissioner through the development of medical and health standards for use in the issuance of driver's licenses by the Department to avoid the issuance of licenses to persons suffering from any physical or mental disability or disease that will prevent their exercising reasonable and ordinary control over a motor vehicle while driving it on the highways.

The Board shall meet at the pleasure of the Commissioner. Each member shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for his necessary expenses from funds appropriated to the Department of Motor Vehicles.

1968, c. 168, § 46.1-26.1; 1974, c. 453; 1980, c. 728; 1984, c. 780; 1989, c. 727; 2017, c. [120](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0120).

