# ยง 46.2-1121 (Effective July 1, 2023) Flag or light at end of load.

A. Whenever the load on any vehicle other than a commercial motor vehicle extends more than four feet beyond the rear of the bed or body thereof, there shall be displayed at the end of the load, in such a position as to be clearly visible at all times from the rear of the load, a red flag, not less than 12 inches, both in length and width.

B. Any commercial motor vehicle transporting a load that extends beyond the sides of the vehicle by more than four inches or more than four feet beyond the rear of the vehicle shall have the extremities of the load marked with a red or orange fluorescent warning flag. Any such warning flag shall be at least 18 inches, both in length and width. If the projecting load is two feet wide or less, there shall be at least one flag at the extreme rear. If the projecting load is wider than two feet, there shall be at least two warning flags at the extreme rear. Any such flag shall be located to indicate the maximum widths of any load that extends beyond the sides or rear of the commercial motor vehicle.

C. On any vehicle subject to the provisions of subsection A or B, between sunset and sunrise, there shall be displayed at the end of the load a red light plainly visible in clear weather at least 500 feet to the sides and rear of the vehicle.

Code 1950, ยง 46-304; 1958, c. 541, ยง 46.1-300; 1989, c. 727; 2022, c. [50](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0050).

