# ยง 46.2-490.5 Suspension, revocation, cancellation or refusal to renew clinic license or instructor license; imposition of monetary penalties.

A. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no license issued under this chapter shall be suspended, revoked, or cancelled or renewal thereof denied, and no monetary penalty shall be imposed pursuant to ยง [46.2-490.6](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-490.6/), unless the licensee has been furnished a written copy of the complaint against him and the grounds upon which the action is taken and has been offered an opportunity for an administrative hearing to show cause why such action should not be taken.

B. The order suspending, revoking, canceling, or denying renewal of a license, or imposing a monetary penalty, except as otherwise provided in subsection D of this section, shall not become effective until the licensee has had 30 days after notice of the opportunity for a hearing to make a written request for such a hearing. If no hearing has been requested within such 30-day period, the order shall become effective and no hearing shall thereafter be held. Except as provided in subsection D of this section, a timely request for a hearing shall automatically stay operation of the order until after the hearing.

C. Notice of an order suspending, revoking, canceling or denying renewal of a license, or imposing a monetary penalty and advising the licensee of the opportunity for a hearing shall be mailed to the licensee by registered mail to the clinic address as shown in the Department's records and shall be considered served when mailed.

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection B of this section, if the Commissioner makes a finding, after conducting a preliminary investigation, that the conduct of a licensee (i) is in violation of this chapter, regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, or criteria established by the Department pursuant to this chapter, and (ii) such violation constitutes a danger to public safety, the Commissioner may issue an order suspending, revoking, or denying renewal of the instructor's license, the clinic's license, or both, as deemed appropriate by the Commissioner. Orders suspending, revoking, or denying renewal of such license pursuant to this subsection shall be effective immediately. Notice of the suspension, revocation or denial shall be in writing and mailed in accordance with subsection C of this section. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing appealing the suspension, the licensee shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing as soon as practicable, but no longer than 30 days of receipt of the hearing request. The suspension shall remain in effect pending the outcome of the hearing.

2004, c. [622](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0622).

