# ยง 46.2-1587 Course provider approval.

A. The Board may approve a course provider, provided that:

1. The course provider has submitted an application to the Board prior to offering the course;

2. The submitted application includes at a minimum the following information:

a. Name of provider;

b. Proposed course schedule, including locations (as applicable);

c. Charges to participants;

d. Description of the provider's course curriculum and objectives;

e. Credentials of faculty members;

f. Method of delivery;

g. Evaluation procedure;

h. Mechanism for recordkeeping; and

i. Any such information as the Board deems necessary to assure quality and compliance;

3. The course provider's course curriculum includes the following:

a. Ethical practice;

b. Recordkeeping;

c. Recent state and federal laws and regulations;

d. Review of relevant federal regulations;

e. Titling and registration requirements, including use of dealer-related license plates;

f. Offsite sales;

g. Financing;

h. Dealer practices;

i. Salespersons licenses; and

j. Advertising; and

4. A course containing content that promotes, sells, or offers goods, products, or services shall not be approved. However, the course provider may promote goods, products, or services at the conclusion of a course, provided that it is made clear to participants that the course has concluded and that attendance at any additional presentations is optional.

B. The Board shall notify the course provider within 60 days following the receipt of a completed application of approval or disapproval of a course.

C. The Board shall periodically review and monitor course providers and courses.

D. Any changes in the information previously provided about an approved course or course provider shall be submitted to the Board. The Board may withdraw its approval of the course provider or course for a failure to do so.

E. The Executive Director has the authority to suspend the approval of any course or course provider and the Board may withdraw approval for good cause.

2022, c. [574](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0574).

