# ยง 46.2-472 Coverage of owner's policy.

A. For all policies effective on or after January 1, 2022, but prior to January 1, 2025, every motor vehicle owner's policy shall:

1. Designate by explicit description or by appropriate reference, all motor vehicles with respect to which coverage is intended to be granted.

2. Insure as insured the person named and any other person using or responsible for the use of the motor vehicle or motor vehicles with the permission of the named insured.

3. Insure the insured or other person against loss from any liability imposed by law for damages, including damages for care and loss of services, because of bodily injury to or death of any person, and injury to or destruction of property caused by accident and arising out of the ownership, use, or operation of such motor vehicle or motor vehicles within the Commonwealth, any other state in the United States, or Canada, subject to a limit exclusive of interest and costs, with respect to each motor vehicle, of $30,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one accident and, subject to the limit for one person, to a limit of $60,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident, and to a limit of $20,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.

B. For all policies effective on or after January 1, 2025, every motor vehicle owner's policy shall:

1. Designate, by explicit description or appropriate reference, all motor vehicles with respect to which coverage is intended to be granted.

2. Insure as insured the person named and any other person using or responsible for the use of the motor vehicle or vehicles with the permission of the named insured.

3. Insure the insured or other person against loss from any liability imposed by law for damages, including damages for care and loss of services, because of bodily injury to or death of any person, and injury to or destruction of property caused by an accident and arising out of the ownership, use, or operation of such motor vehicle or vehicles within the Commonwealth, any other state in the United States, or Canada, subject to a limit exclusive of interest and costs, with respect to each motor vehicle, of $50,000 because of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one accident and, subject to the limit for one person, to a limit of $100,000 because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons in any one accident, and to a limit of $25,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others in any one accident.

Code 1950, ยง 46-492; 1954, c. 378; 1958, cc. 501, 541, ยง 46.1-504; 1968, c. 685; 1972, c. 433; 1975, c. 382; 1978, c. 550; 1989, cc. 621, 727; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [273](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0273).

