# ยง 46.2-1190.6 Other grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking licenses.

A license issued pursuant to this article may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds, where applicable:

1. Material misstatement or omission in application for license;

2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written notice from the Department or any willful failure to comply with a lawful order, any provision of this article, or any term, condition, or restriction of a license;

3. Failure to comply with zoning or other land use regulations, ordinances, or statutes;

4. Use of deceptive business acts or practices;

5. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact that is untrue, misleading, or deceptive relating to the conduct of the business for which a license is held or sought;

6. Having been found, through a judicial or administrative hearing, to have committed fraudulent or deceptive acts in connection with the training center for which a license is held or sought, or any consumer-related fraud;

7. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the training center for which a license is held or sought;

8. Improper assignment, lending, or otherwise allowing the improper use of a license;

9. Any corporate officer, owner, administrator and any individual authorized to obligate the training center having been convicted of a felony;

10. Any corporate officer, owner, administrator and any individual authorized to obligate the training center having been convicted of any misdemeanor involving lying, cheating, stealing, or moral turpitude;

11. Failure to furnish the Department information, documentation, or records required or requested pursuant to this article;

12. Knowingly and willfully filing any false report, account, record, or memorandum;

13. Willfully altering or changing the appearance or wording of a training center license or a course completion certificate;

14. Failure to provide services in accordance with the terms, limitations, conditions, or requirements of the license; or

15. Failure to comply with other state and federal requirements relating to training center operations.

2004, c. [734](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0734).

