# ยง 46.2-1081 Slow-moving vehicle emblems.

A. Every farm tractor, self-propelled unit of farm equipment or implement of husbandry, and any other vehicle designed for operation at speeds not in excess of 25 miles per hour or normally operated at speeds not in excess of 25 miles per hour, shall display a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle when traveling on a public highway at any time of the day or night.

B. Should a slow-moving vehicle tow a unit on a public highway, then the towing vehicle or the towed unit shall be equipped with the slow-moving vehicle emblem as follows:

1. If the towed unit or any load thereon obscures the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing vehicle, the towed unit shall be equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem, in which case the towing vehicle need not display such emblem.

2. If the slow-moving vehicle emblem on the towing vehicle is not obscured by the towed unit or any load thereon, then either or both such vehicles may be equipped with such emblem.

C. The standards and specifications for the slow-moving vehicle emblem and the position of mounting of the emblem shall conform to standards and specifications adopted by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the American National Standards Institute, Inc., or the federal Department of Transportation.

D. The use of the slow-moving vehicle emblem shall be restricted to the uses specified in this title.

E. The provisions of this section shall not apply to bicycles, electric power-assisted bicycles, mopeds, or motorized skateboards or scooters. Display of a slow-moving vehicle emblem on a bicycle, electric power-assisted bicycle, moped, or motorized skateboard or scooter shall not be deemed a violation of this section.

1970, c. 301, ยง 46.1-264.1; 1972, c. 146; 1978, c. 605; 1989, c. 727; 1996, c. [82](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0082); 2003, cc. [29](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0029), [46](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0046); 2019, c. [780](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0780).

