# ยง 46.2-1550.2 Issuance and use of temporary transport plates, generally.

The Department, subject to the limitations and conditions set forth in this section and the insurance requirements contained in ยง [46.2-1547](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1547/), may provide for the issuance of temporary transport plates designed by the Department to any dealer licensed under this chapter who applies for at least 10 plates and who encloses with his application a fee of $1.50 for each plate. The application shall be made on a form prescribed and furnished by the Department. Temporary transport plates may be used for those purposes outlined in ยง [46.2-1550.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1550.1/). Every dealer who has applied for temporary transport plates shall maintain a record of (i) all temporary transport plates delivered to him, (ii) all temporary transport plates issued by him, and (iii) any other information pertaining to the receipt or the issuance of temporary transport plates which may be required by the Department.

Every dealer who issues temporary transport plates shall insert clearly and indelibly on the face of the temporary transport plates the name of the issuing dealer, the date of issuance and expiration, and the make and identification number of the vehicle for which issued.

The dealer shall issue to the operator of the specified vehicle a certificate on forms provided by the Department, a copy of which shall be retained by the dealer and open at all times to the inspection of the Commissioner or any of the officers or agents of the Department. The certificate shall be in the immediate possession of the person operating or authorized to operate the vehicle. The certificate shall entitle the person to operate with the dealer's temporary transport plate for a period of no more than five days. Temporary transport plates may also be used by the dealer to demonstrate types of vehicles taken in trade but for which he has not been issued dealer's license plates.

1991, c. 712; 2012, cc. [215](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0215), [222](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0222).

