# ยง 46.2-2011.24 Grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking licenses, permits, or certificates.

A license, permit, or certificate issued pursuant to this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds, where applicable:

1. Material misstatement or omission in application for license, certificate, permit, identification marker, or vehicle registration;

2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written warning from the Department or any willful failure to comply with a lawful order, any provision of this chapter or any regulation promulgated by the Department under this chapter, or any term, condition, or restriction of a license, permit, or certificate;

3. Failure to comply with zoning or other land use regulations, ordinances, or statutes;

4. Use of deceptive business acts or practices;

5. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact that is untrue, misleading, or deceptive relating to the conduct of the business for which a license, certificate, permit, identification marker, or vehicle registration is held or sought;

6. Having been found, through a judicial or administrative hearing, to have committed fraudulent or deceptive acts in connection with the business for which a license, permit, or certificate is held or sought or any consumer-related fraud;

7. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the business for which a license, permit, or certificate is held or sought;

8. Failure to comply with ยง [46.2-2056](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-2056/) or any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto;

9. Improper leasing, renting, lending, or otherwise allowing the improper use of a license, certificate, permit, identification marker, or vehicle registration;

10. Having been convicted of a felony;

11. Having been convicted of any misdemeanor involving lying, cheating, stealing, or moral turpitude;

12. Failure to submit to the Department any tax, fees, dues, fines, or penalties owed to the Department;

13. Failure to furnish the Department information, documentation, or records required or requested pursuant to statute or regulation;

14. Knowingly and willfully filing any false report, account, record, or memorandum;

15. Failure to meet or maintain application certifications or requirements of public convenience and necessity, character, fitness, and financial responsibility pursuant to this chapter;

16. Willfully altering or changing the appearance or wording of any license, permit, certificate, identification marker, license plate, or vehicle registration;

17. Failure to provide services in accordance with license, permit, or certificate terms, limitations, conditions, or requirements;

18. Failure to maintain and keep on file with the Department motor carrier liability insurance, issued by a company licensed to do business in the Commonwealth, or a bond, certificate of insurance, certificate of self-insurance, or unconditional letter of credit in accordance with this chapter, with respect to each motor vehicle operated in the Commonwealth;

19. Failure to comply with the Workers' Compensation Act of Title 65.2;

20. Failure to properly register a motor vehicle under this title;

21. Failure to comply with any federal motor carrier statute, rule, or regulation;

22. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act or the Virginians with Disabilities Act (ยง [51.5-1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.5-1/) et seq.);

23. Inactivity of a motor carrier as may be evidenced by the absence of a motor vehicle registered to operate under such certificate or permit for a period of greater than three months; or

24. Failure to comply with any provision regarding the filing and registered agent requirements set forth in Title 13.1.

2001, c. [596](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596); 2013, cc. [165](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165), [582](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582); 2015, cc. [2](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0002), [3](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0003).

