# § 46.2-1148.1 Overweight permit for hauling forest products.

A. For purposes of this section, "forest products" means raw logs to market, rough-sawn green lumber, and wood residuals, including wood chips, wood pellets, sawdust, mulch, and tree bark.

B. In addition to other permits provided for in this article, the Commissioner, upon written application by the owner or operator of any vehicle hauling forest products transported from the place where they are first produced, cut, harvested, or felled to the location where they are first processed, shall issue permits for overweight operation of such vehicles as provided in this section. Such permits shall allow the vehicles to have a single-axle weight of no more than 24,000 pounds, a tandem-axle weight of no more than 40,000 pounds, and a tri-axle grouping weight of no more than 50,000 pounds. Additionally, any five-axle combination having a minimum of 48 feet between the first and last axle may have a gross weight of no more than 90,000 pounds, any four-axle combination may have a gross weight of no more than 70,000 pounds, any three-axle combination may have a gross weight of no more than 60,000 pounds, and any two-axle combination may have a gross weight of no more than 40,000 pounds.

C. No permit issued under this section shall designate the route to be traversed or contain restrictions or conditions not applicable to other vehicles in their general use of the highways. However, no such permit shall authorize violation of the length limitations in § [46.2-1149.2](/vacode/46.2-1149.2/) or any weight limitation applicable to bridges or culverts, as promulgated and posted in accordance with § [46.2-1130](/vacode/46.2-1130/). Nothing contained in this section shall authorize any extension of weight limits provided in § [46.2-1127](/vacode/46.2-1127/) for operation on interstate highways.

D. The fee for a permit issued under this section shall be as provided in § [46.2-1140.1](/vacode/46.2-1140.1/). Only the Commissioner may issue a permit under this section.

E. Each vehicle when loaded according to the provisions of a permit issued under this section shall be operated at a reduced speed as provided in § [46.2-872](/vacode/46.2-872/).

2015, cc. [40](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0040), [72](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0072); 2018, c. [12](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0012); 2020, cc. [268](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0268), [409](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0409).

