# § 46.2-1190 Regional motorcycle rider safety training centers; requirements.

A. Any public or private agency, organization, school, institution of higher education, partnership, corporation, or individual that meets the program requirements set forth in this article shall be eligible for participation in the program and may organize a regional motorcycle rider safety training center and offer motorcycle rider safety training courses.

B. No such agency, organization, business or individual shall operate a motorcycle rider safety training center without a license. Such agencies, organizations, businesses and individuals shall apply to the Department for a license pursuant to § [46.2-1192](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1192/). The applications for training center licenses shall include, but not be limited to:

1. The address and detailed description of the facility or facilities where the course shall be conducted;

2. The name, address, federal identification number, and telephone number of the agency, organization, school, institution of higher education, partnership, or corporation organized as a training center;

3. The name, address, social security number, and telephone number of the individual who is authorized to obligate the training center;

4. The names, addresses, social security numbers, and telephone numbers of the administrator and the instructors;

5. For those agencies, organizations, businesses, and individuals that apply to receive reimbursement, the names, addresses, social security numbers, and telephone numbers of all individuals who are to receive reimbursement;

6. A planned course schedule including course type, dates, and hours of course conduct;

7. The projected number of students to be trained in the program during the calendar year;

8. Detailed specifications of the curricula intended for use;

9. For those agencies, organizations, businesses, and individuals that apply to receive reimbursement, a planned course budget to include all estimated costs for course operation, administration, instructors' salaries, insurance, advertising, purchase of test books, equipment and materials, and other course-related expenses;

10. For those agencies, organizations, businesses, and individuals that apply to receive reimbursement, estimated course fees to be charged to participants;

11. Verification of adequate insurance coverage to protect both the Commonwealth and the training center and all instructors, aides, and participants in any course conducted under the program, including the following:

a. Minimum employers liability -- $100,000;

b. Minimum commercial general liability -- $500,000 combined single limit;

c. Minimum automobile liability -- $500,000 combined single limit; and

d. Workers' compensation insurance in accordance with § [2.2-4332](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4332/) and Chapter 8 (§ [65.2-800](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/65.2-800/) et seq.) of Title 65;

12. Verification of proper safety equipment and a sufficient number of training motorcycles for novice rider courses;

13. Verification that the designated classrooms, ranges, and motorcycle and equipment storage areas are available for all training courses offered by the training center at that site and that they comply with all necessary zoning, health, and safety codes;

14. Criminal background checks on all corporate officers, owners, administrators, and all individuals authorized to obligate the training center; and

15. A statement as to the ability and willingness to meet all requirements set forth in this article.

The Department shall issue licenses to applicants whose curricula, facilities, equipment, corporate officers, administrators, instructors, and all individuals authorized to obligate the training center meet the requirements set forth in this article, subject to the provisions of § [46.2-1192](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1192/).

C. The Commissioner shall act on any application for a license under this article within 30 days after receipt by either granting or denying the application. The Commissioner may, as may be necessary during the initial review and evaluation of an application, request additional information from an applicant, thereby extending the period for granting or denying a license by not more than 30 days from the receipt of such additional information. Any applicant denied a license shall, on his written request made within 30 days of the Commissioner's action, be given a hearing at a time and place determined by the Commissioner or his designee. All hearings under this section shall be public and shall be held as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 30 days from receipt of the hearing request. The applicant may be represented by counsel. Any applicant denied a license may not apply again for the same type of license for 180 calendar days from the date of denial of the application.

D. The facilities, equipment, curriculum, accreditation, and geographic areas in which each training center may offer courses shall be approved by the Department. The location of the training centers shall be in accordance with the Department's administrative districts. No training center shall change its location without the approval of the Department. Training centers shall provide courses for either novice, experienced or sidecar and three-wheeled motorcyclists or any of the three, depending upon the curricula used. Training centers shall maintain such records and provide such reports as determined by the Department. Training centers shall submit all reports required by the Department for evaluation. The Department shall monitor and evaluate the performance of the training centers and the effectiveness of the program in training motorcyclists.

E. Training centers shall ensure that instructors maintain the minimum qualifications and meet any other instructor requirements established in this article. The Department may, pursuant to subsection C of § [46.2-1190.5](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1190.5/), terminate a training course if it finds an instructor in violation of any provision of this article.

Instructors shall meet the requirements of this article, the Department and the public or private agency, organization, school, institution of higher education, partnership, corporation or individual offering the program.

1984, c. 476, § 46.1-568; 1989, c. 727; 2001, cc. [21](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0021), [27](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0027); 2004, c. [734](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0734); 2013, c. [226](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0226).

