# ยง 46.2-1158.1 Extension of validity of vehicle safety inspection approval stickers issued for vehicles whose registered owners are persons in the armed services of the United States.

Notwithstanding any contrary provision of law, any vehicle safety inspection approval sticker issued for any vehicle that is principally garaged outside the Commonwealth while its registered owner is a person in the armed services of the United States shall be held not to have expired during the period of the owner's official absence from the Commonwealth in the armed services of the United States, regardless of whether such vehicle is operated in or through the Commonwealth during the owner's official absence from the Commonwealth in the armed services of the United States. Should the armed services member be domiciled in another state of the United States, nothing in this section shall be construed to absolve such person from obtaining a current inspection sticker from his state of domicile, if required by such state. In cases where a vehicle's owner has been officially absent from the Commonwealth because of service in the armed services of the United States but returns to Virginia following such official absence and the vehicle becomes operational in the Commonwealth, the vehicle's owner will have 14 calendar days following such return, Sundays and holidays excepted, to have the vehicle inspected. Furthermore, no penalty shall be imposed on any such owner or operator for operation of a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer after the expiration of a period fixed for the inspection thereof, over the most direct route between the place where such vehicle is kept or garaged and an official inspection station for the purpose of having it inspected pursuant to an appointment with such station.

Motor vehicles owned and operated by persons on active duty with the United States armed forces who are Virginia residents stationed outside the Commonwealth at the time the inspection expires may be operated on the highways of the Commonwealth while persons on active duty are on leave, provided such vehicle displays a valid inspection sticker issued by another state.

For the purposes of this section, "service in the armed services of the United States" includes active duty service with the regular armed forces of the United States or the National Guard or other reserve component.

2005, c. [582](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0582); 2008, c. [722](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0722); 2009, c. [523](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0523); 2011, c. [283](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0283); 2014, cc. [67](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0067), [250](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0250).

