# § 46.2-1178 Administration and scope of emissions inspection program.

A. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the emissions inspection program provided for in this article shall apply to motor vehicles having actual gross weights of 8,500 pounds or less that are registered in the Counties of Arlington, Fairfax, and Prince William, and the Cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, and Manassas Park. The provisions of this subsection shall expire when the provisions of subsection C of this section become effective.

B. An emissions inspection program as required by regulations adopted by the Board under this article shall apply to motor vehicles that have actual gross weights of 8,500 pounds or less and are registered or operated primarily, as defined by the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.), in the Counties of Chesterfield, Hanover, and Henrico and the Cities of Colonial Heights, Hopewell, and Richmond. Such emissions inspection program shall be a basic, test and repair program with the greatest number of inspection facilities consistent with the consumer protection and fee provisions herein as consistent with the federal Clean Air Act.

The provisions of this subsection shall apply but not necessarily be limited to (i) motor vehicles owned by governmental entities, (ii) motor vehicles owned by military personnel residing in those localities, (iii) motor vehicles owned by leasing or rental companies, and (iv) motor vehicles owned or leased by employees of the federal government and operated on a federal installation. The provisions of this subsection shall become effective July 1, 1995. The Board may promulgate regulations to implement the provisions of this article, but such regulations shall not require inspections in the localities mentioned in this subsection prior to the later of: (i) July 1, 1996; or (ii) the date on which the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act, formally and in writing approves this program for such localities or on such later date as may be provided by regulations of the Board.

B1. The emissions inspection program provided for in this article shall not apply to any qualified hybrid motor vehicle if such vehicle obtains a rating from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency of at least (i) 50 miles per gallon during city fuel economy tests or (ii) 48 miles per gallon during city fuel economy tests for hybrid vehicles with a model year of 2008 or 2009, unless remote sensing devices indicate the hybrid vehicle may not meet current emissions standards. The Board shall adopt such regulations as may be required to implement this exemption.

C. The emissions inspection program provided for in this subsection shall be a test and repair enhanced emissions inspection program with the greatest number of inspection facilities consistent with the consumer protection and fee provisions herein and shall include on-road testing, remote sensing devices, and an on-road clean screen program. Any enhanced emissions inspection program provided for in this article shall apply to motor vehicles that have actual gross weights of 10,000 pounds or less that were actually manufactured or designated by the manufacturer as a model manufactured in a calendar year less than 25 calendar years prior to January 1 of the present calendar year and are registered or operated primarily, as defined by the Board in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.) in the Counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun, Prince William, and Stafford and the Cities of Alexandria, Fairfax, Falls Church, Manassas, and Manassas Park. On and after July 1, 2012, and before July 1, 2013, an on-road clean screen program shall be limited to no more than 10 percent of the motor vehicles described in this subsection which are eligible for emissions inspection during the applicable 12-month period. On and after July 1, 2013, and before July 1, 2014, an on-road clean screen program shall be limited to no more than 20 percent of the motor vehicles described in this subsection which are eligible for emissions inspection during the applicable 12-month period. On and after July 1, 2014, an on-road clean screen program shall be limited to no more than 30 percent of the motor vehicles described in this subsection which are eligible for emissions inspection during the applicable 12-month period. An on-road clean screen program or a validation program utilizing remote sensing equipment shall not be considered emissions inspection stations. The Board may reduce the percentage of vehicles eligible to participate in the on-road clean screen program as is necessary to meet applicable air quality requirements under the federal Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. § 7401 et seq., as amended. Notwithstanding the provisions of § [46.2-1176](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1176/), the Board shall designate remote sensing equipment as authorized testing equipment pursuant to this section.

The provisions of this subsection shall apply but not necessarily be limited to (i) motor vehicles owned by governmental entities, (ii) motor vehicles owned by military personnel residing in those localities, (iii) vehicles owned by leasing or rental companies, and (iv) motor vehicles owned or leased by employees of the federal government and operated on a federal installation.

The provisions of this subsection shall be effective January 1, 1996, or on such later date as may be provided by regulations of the Board. However, the provisions of this subsection may become effective immediately provided that (a) the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, pursuant to the federal Clean Air Act, formally and in writing approves the program for such localities; (b) the Governor determines in writing that expedited promulgation of such regulations is in the best interest of the Commonwealth, determining that such shall constitute an "emergency situation" pursuant to § [2.2-4011](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4011/); and (c) the Governor authorizes the Board to promulgate the regulations as emergency regulations in accordance with this section.

D. Any emissions inspection program regulations in effect at the time amendments to this section become effective shall remain in effect until the Board promulgates new regulations or amends or repeals existing regulations in accordance with this section.

1980, c. 469, § 46.1-326.4; 1988, c. 806; 1989, c. 727; 1993, cc. 995, 998; 1993, Sp. Sess., c. 2; 1994, c. [838](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0838); 1995, cc. [836](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0836), [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0851); 1997, c. [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0507); 2002, c. [710](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0710); 2004, c. [915](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0915); 2012, cc. [216](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0216), [824](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0824); 2013, c. [634](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0634).

