# ยง 46.2-1583 Definitions.

As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Certificate of qualification" means a designation issued by the Board acknowledging that the individual has been certified by the Board as an independent dealer-operator pursuant to ยง [46.2-1511](/vacode/46.2-1511/).

"Course" means a course of study leading to recertification for independent dealer-operators offered by correspondence, electronically, or in person.

"Course provider" or "provider" means any person or entity presenting or offering one or more recertification education courses.

"Exam" or "examination" means a test administered by the Board.

"Executive Director" means the Executive Director of the Board.

"Independent dealer-operator" means the individual who works at the established place of business of an independent motor vehicle dealer and who is responsible for and in charge of day-to-day operations of that place of business.

"Independent motor vehicle dealer" or "independent dealer" means a dealer in used motor vehicles that is not also licensed as a franchised motor vehicle dealer.

"Original application" means an application for an independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification from an applicant who has never been issued an independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification in Virginia or whose Virginia independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification has been expired for more than 60 days.

"Recertification" means completing the requirements of this article to recertify an independent dealer-operator certificate of qualification.

2022, c. [574](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0574).

