# § 46.2-644.02 Lien of mechanic for repairs.

A. Every mechanic who shall alter or repair any vehicle at the request of the owner or authorized person in possession of such vehicle shall have a lien thereon for his just and reasonable charges therefor and may retain possession of such property until such charges are paid. Such lien shall be in addition to any lien under § [46.2-644.01](/vacode/46.2-644.01/).

B. No lien under this section shall exceed $1,000 for any vehicle for which the title shows an existing lien. However, the mechanic shall be entitled to a lien against the proceeds, if any, remaining after the satisfaction of all prior security interests or liens.

For any vehicle not subject to an existing lien on the title, no lien under this section, alone or in combination with a lien under § [46.2-644.01](/vacode/46.2-644.01/), shall exceed the value of the vehicle as determined by the provisions of § [8.01-419.1](/vacode/8.01-419.1/).

C. The mechanic or his authorized agent shall ascertain from the Department whether the certificate of title for the vehicle shows a lien thereon in accordance with the provisions of § [46.2-644.03](/vacode/46.2-644.03/) within seven business days after the due date of an invoice for the amount due for the alteration or repair. The mechanic may then enforce his lien under the provisions of § [46.2-644.03](/vacode/46.2-644.03/) after such invoice goes unpaid for 10 days after it is due or relinquish his lien under the provisions of § [46.2-644.04](/vacode/46.2-644.04/).

D. If the owner of the vehicle held by the mechanic shall desire to obtain possession thereof, he shall make the mechanic defendant in proceeding in the county or municipal court to recover the vehicle.

The owner may give a bond payable to the court, in a penalty of the amount equal to the lien claimed by the mechanic and court costs, with security to be approved by the clerk, and conditioned for the performance of the final judgment of the court on the trial of the proceeding, and with a further condition to the effect that, if upon the hearing, the judgment of the court be that the lien of the mechanic on such vehicle, or any part thereof, be enforced, judgment may thereupon be entered against the obligors on such bond for the amount due the mechanic and court costs, if assessed against the owner, without further or other proceedings against them thereon. Upon giving of the bond, the vehicle shall be delivered to the owner.

2009, c. [664](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0664); 2016, c. [397](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0397); 2019, c. [561](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0561); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [374](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0374).

