# ยง 46.2-736 Special license plates for professional or volunteer fire fighters and members of volunteer fire department auxiliaries; fees.

The Commissioner, on application, shall supply professional fire fighters, members of volunteer fire departments, members of volunteer fire department auxiliaries, and volunteer members of any fire department license plates bearing the letters "F D" followed by numbers or letters or any combination thereof.

An application shall be required from each professional fire fighter, volunteer fire fighter, or member of a volunteer fire department auxiliary. The application shall be approved by the chief or head of the fire department and shall contain the name and residence address of the applicant. Each fire department shall maintain a copy of such approved application and shall notify the Commissioner within 30 days of separation of any professional fire fighter, volunteer fire fighter, or member of a volunteer fire department auxiliary from such fire department.

The Commissioner shall charge each professional fire fighter a fee of one dollar in addition to the prescribed cost of state license plates, for each set of license plates issued under this section. No additional fee shall be charged to members of volunteer fire departments, members of volunteer fire department auxiliaries, or volunteer members of any fire department.

1973, c. 190, ยง 46.1-105.4; 1975, c. 25; 1976, cc. 460, 500; 1978, c. 201; 1987, c. 696; 1989, c. 727; 1996, c. [1026](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1026); 2018, c. [635](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0635).

