# ยง 46.2-108 Records required of persons renting motor vehicles without drivers; inspections; insurance.

A. Every person engaged in the business of renting motor vehicles without drivers who rents any vehicle without a driver, otherwise than as a part of a bona fide transaction involving the sale of the motor vehicle, shall maintain a record of the identity of the person to whom the vehicle is rented and the exact time the vehicle is the subject of the rental or in possession of the person renting and having the use of the vehicle. These records shall be public records and open to inspection by any person damaged as to his person or property by the operation of the vehicle or by law-enforcement personnel in the discharge of their duties. Any person who has been damaged as to his person or property may require a production of the written record in person or by his authorized agent or attorney.

B. It shall be unlawful for any person who rents a motor vehicle as provided in this section to fail to make or have in possession or to refuse an inspection of the record required in this section.

C. The Commissioner shall prescribe and the owner shall use the form for the keeping of the record provided in this section.

D. No person engaged in the business of renting automobiles and trucks without drivers shall rent any vehicle without a driver unless the vehicle is an insured motor vehicle as defined in ยง [46.2-705](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-705/). A violation of this subsection shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor.

Code 1950, ยง 46-191; 1958, c. 541, ยง 46.1-14; 1960, c. 141; 1972, c. 373; 1978, c. 605; 1980, c. 9; 1989, c. 727.

