# ยง 46.2-1109 Widths of commercial vehicles.

No commercial vehicle shall exceed 102 inches in width when operating on any interstate highway or on any highway designated by the Commonwealth Transportation Board. The width limitation in this section shall not include rear view mirrors, turn signal lights, handholds for cab entry and egress, splash suppressant devices, and load-induced tire bulge. Safety devices, with the exception of rear view mirrors, shall not extend more than three inches on each side of a vehicle. The Commissioner of Highways shall designate reasonable access to terminals, facilities for food, fuel, repairs, and rest. Household goods carriers and any tractor truck semitrailer combination in which the semitrailer has a length of no more than twenty-eight and one-half feet shall not be denied reasonable access to points of loading and unloading, except as designated, based on safety considerations, by the Commissioner of Highways. No reasonable access designation shall be made, however, until notice of any proposed designation has been provided by the Commissioner of Highways to the governing body of every locality wherein any highway affected by the proposed designation is located.

For the purposes of this section, a commercial vehicle is defined as a loaded or empty motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer designed or regularly used for carrying freight, merchandise, or more than ten passengers, including buses, but not including vehicles used for vanpools.

1986, c. 72, ยง 46.1-328.1; 1989, cc. 645, 727; 1994, c. [456](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0456); 1997, c. [773](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0773); 2013, cc. [585](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0585), [646](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0646).

