# ยง 46.2-1013 Tail lights.

A. Every motor vehicle and every trailer or semitrailer being drawn at the end of one or more other vehicles shall carry at the rear two red lights plainly visible in clear weather from a distance of 500 feet to the rear of such vehicle.

B. All tail lights required pursuant to subsection A shall be constructed and so mounted in their relation to the rear license plate as to illuminate the license plate with a white light so that the same may be read from a distance of 50 feet to the rear of such vehicle. Alternatively, a separate white light shall be so mounted as to illuminate the rear license plate from a distance of 50 feet to the rear of such vehicle. No law-enforcement officer shall stop a motor vehicle for a violation of this subsection. No evidence discovered or obtained as the result of a stop in violation of this subsection, including evidence discovered or obtained with the operator's consent, shall be admissible in any trial, hearing, or other proceeding.

C. Any tail lights or special white light required pursuant to this section shall be of a type approved by the Superintendent.

D. In any instance where the tail light is to be installed on a boat trailer and the boat extends beyond the end of the trailer or to the end of the trailer, an approved portable light assembly or assemblies may be attached to the exposed rear of the boat, provided such installation complies with the visibility requirements of this section. The provisions of this section shall not apply to motorcycles.

Code 1950, ยง 46-267; 1952, c. 652; 1958, c. 541, ยง 46.1-262; 1964, c. 16; 1989, c. 727; 2003, c. [964](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0964); 2020, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [45](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0045), [51](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0051).

