# § 46.2-1158 Frequency of inspection; scope of inspection.

Motor vehicles, trailers, and semitrailers required to be inspected pursuant to the provisions of § [46.2-1157](/vacode/46.2-1157/) shall be reinspected within 12 months of the month of the first inspection and at least once every 12 months thereafter.

Each inspection shall be a complete inspection. A reinspection of a rejected vehicle by the same station during the period of validity of the rejection sticker on such vehicle, however, need only include an inspection of the item or items previously found defective unless there is found an obvious defect that would warrant further rejection of the vehicle.

A rejection sticker shall be valid for 15 calendar days beyond the day of issuance, during which time the operator of the vehicle shall not be charged for a violation of vehicle equipment requirements set forth in Article 3 (§ [46.2-1010](/vacode/46.2-1010/) et seq.) through Article 9 (§ [46.2-1066](/vacode/46.2-1066/) et seq.) for such vehicle. A complete inspection shall be performed on any vehicle bearing an expired rejection sticker.

The completion of the conversion process for a converted electric vehicle shall invalidate any inspection of such vehicle conducted in accordance with this section prior to the conversion. Following the initial inspection of a converted electric vehicle, as required under § [46.2-602.3](/vacode/46.2-602.3/) and the provisions of this chapter, such vehicle shall be reinspected in accordance with this section.

1977, c. 655, § 46.1-315.2; 1978, cc. 302, 748; 1982, c. 646; 1989, c. 727; 2012, c. [177](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0177); 2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

