# ยง 46.2-2133 Grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking certificates.

A certificate of fitness issued under this chapter may be denied, suspended, or revoked on any one or more of the following grounds, where applicable:

1. Material misstatement or omission in application for certificate of fitness or vehicle registration;

2. Failure to comply subsequent to receipt of a written warning from the Department or any willful failure to comply with a lawful order, any provision of this chapter or any regulation promulgated by the Department under this chapter, or any term or condition of any certificate of fitness;

3. Use of deceptive business acts or practices;

4. Knowingly advertising by any means any assertion, representation, or statement of fact that is untrue, misleading, or deceptive relating to the conduct of the business for which a certificate of fitness or vehicle registration is held or sought;

5. Having been found, through a judicial or administrative hearing, to have committed fraudulent or deceptive acts in connection with the business for which a certificate of fitness is held or sought or any consumer-related fraud;

6. Having been convicted of any criminal act involving the business for which a certificate of fitness is held or sought;

7. Improper leasing, renting, lending, or otherwise allowing the improper use of a certificate of fitness, identification marker issued by the Department, or vehicle registration;

8. Having been convicted of a felony;

9. Having been convicted of any misdemeanor involving lying, cheating, stealing, or moral turpitude;

10. Failure to submit to the Department any tax, fees, dues, fines, or penalties owed to the Department;

11. Failure to furnish the Department information, documentation, or records required or requested pursuant to statute or regulation;

12. Knowingly and willfully filing any false report, account, record, or memorandum;

13. Failure to meet or maintain application certifications or requirements of character, fitness, and financial responsibility pursuant to this chapter;

14. Willfully altering or changing the appearance or wording of any license, certificate, identification marker issued by the Department, license plate, or vehicle registration;

15. Failure to provide services in accordance with certificate of fitness terms, limitations, conditions, or requirements;

16. Failure to maintain and keep on file with the Department motor carrier liability insurance or cargo insurance, issued by a company licensed to do business in the Commonwealth, or a bond, certificate of insurance, certificate of self-insurance, or unconditional letter of credit in accordance with this chapter, with respect to each motor vehicle operated in the Commonwealth;

17. Failure to comply with the Workers' Compensation Act of Title 65.2;

18. Failure to properly register a motor vehicle under this title;

19. Failure to comply with any federal motor carrier statute, rule, or regulation; or

20. Inactivity of a motor carrier as may be evidenced by the absence of a motor vehicle registered to operate under such certificate for a period of greater than three months.

2001, c. [596](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596); 2011, cc. [881](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0881), [889](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0889); 2013, cc. [165](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165), [582](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582); 2017, cc. [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0790), [815](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0815).

