# ยง 46.2-1601.1 Advertising and display of license; business hours.

A. Any license issued under this chapter shall be conspicuously displayed at the licensed place of business.

The licensee shall display his usual business hours at the licensed place of business. The hours shall be posted and maintained conspicuously on or near the main entrance of each place of business. Each licensee shall include his usual business hours on the original and every renewal application for a license issued under this chapter. Changes to these hours shall be immediately filed with the Commissioner.

B. The purchase, sale, transport, delivery, removal, or receipt of a salvage or nonrepairable vehicle or the major component parts of such vehicle shall not be advertised to the public unless the advertiser is a licensee or an individual authorized to dispose of a salvage vehicle under subdivision B 2 of ยง [46.2-1602](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1602/). The licensee advertiser shall display in such advertisement its license number issued under this chapter.

C. Advertisements by a licensee, subject to the provisions of subsection B, in a newspaper, on a website, or by any other means of electronic communication for the purchase, sale, transport, delivery, removal, or receipt of any salvage or nonrepairable vehicle or the major component parts of such vehicle shall clearly state the correct company name, physical address, telephone number, and license number issued under this chapter.

2014, c. [58](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0058); 2015, cc. [240](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0240), [254](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0254).

