# ยง 46.2-2099.1 Operational requirements; penalty.

Contract passenger carriers shall provide service on a prearranged basis only for a minimum of one-hour per vehicle trip under a single contract made with one person for an agreed charge for such movement regardless of the number of passengers transported. Contract passenger carriers shall, prior to and at all times when providing compensated service, carry in each motor vehicle a trip sheet, contract order, or wireless text dispatching device identifying the names of the passengers who have arranged for use of the motor vehicle, the date and approximate time of pickup, and the origin and destination. Such trip sheet, contract order, or wireless text dispatching device shall be made available immediately upon request to authorized representatives of the Department, law-enforcement agencies, and airport authorities. Trip sheets, contract orders, or documentation produced by wireless text dispatching devices shall be retained and available for inspection at the carrier's place of business for a period of at least three years. Trip sheets, contract orders, or documentation may be retained (i) in the form of paper records; (ii) by microfilm, microfiche, similar microphotographic process; or (iii) by electronic means. The fact that a contract passenger carrier stations a motor vehicle at an airport, in front of or across the street from a hotel or motel, or within 100 feet of a recognized taxicab stand shall constitute prima facie evidence that the contract passenger carrier is operating in violation of this section, unless the carrier has (i) a completed trip sheet, contract order, or wireless text dispatching device displaying the information required by this section in the vehicle or (ii) a written agreement with an airport authority or hotel or motel owner providing office space devoted to the carrier's business in the airport, hotel, or motel. Any violation of this section shall be punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor.

2001, c. [596](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0596); 2006, c. [449](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0449).

