# ยง 5.1-89 Definitions.

Whenever used in this chapter unless expressly stated otherwise:

(a) The term "person" means any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association or joint-stock association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof.

(b) The term "aircraft" means any contrivance, except a contrivance operating twenty-four inches or less above ground or water level, now known or hereafter invented, used, or designed for navigation of, or flight in, the airspace in the transportation of passengers, property or mail.

(c) The term "common carrier by aircraft" means any person who undertakes, whether directly or by a lease or any other arrangement, to transport passengers, property for the general public, or mail by aircrafts for compensation (wholly within the airspace of the Commonwealth), whether over regular or irregular routes, including such aircraft operations of carriers by rail, water or motor vehicle and of express or forwarding companies.

(d) The term "restricted common carrier by aircraft" means any person who undertakes, whether directly or by lease or other arrangement, to transport passengers or property of any restricted class or classes by aircraft for compensation whether over regular or irregular routes.

(e) [Repealed.]

(f) The term "air carrier" includes a common carrier by aircraft, a restricted common carrier by aircraft, and a contract carrier by aircraft.

(g) The term "broker" means any person not included in the term air carrier and not a bona fide employee or agent of any such carrier, who, as principal or agent, sells or offers for sale any transportation subject to this chapter, or negotiates for, or holds himself out by solicitation, advertisement, or otherwise as one who sells, provides, furnishes, contracts, or arranges for such transportation.

(h) The "services" and "transportation" to which this chapter applies include all aircraft operated by, for, or in the interest of, any air carrier irrespective of ownership or contract, express or implied, together with all facilities and property operated or controlled by any such carrier or carriers and used in the transportation of passengers, property or mail or in the performance of any service in connection therewith.

(i) The term "certificate" means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the State Corporation Commission to common carriers by aircraft and restricted common carriers by aircraft under this chapter.

(j) [Repealed.]

(k) The term "airport" means a landing area used regularly by aircraft for receiving or discharging passengers or cargo, and open to the public for use.

(l) The term "landing area" means any locality, either of land or water, including airports and intermediate landing fields, which is used, or intended to be used, for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, whether or not facilities are provided for the shelter, servicing, or repair of aircraft, or for receiving or discharging passengers or cargo, and open to the public for such use.

(m) The term "airspace" means all airspace above the lands and waters within the boundary of this Commonwealth.

(n) For the purposes of this chapter, "Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.

Code 1950, ยง 56-142; 1952, c. 597; 1970, c. 708; 1979, c. 272; 1980, c. 721.

