# ยง 5.1-168 Revenues.

The Authority is hereby authorized to fix, revise, charge and collect fees or other charges for the use of the airports and to contract with any person, partnership, association or corporation desiring the use of any part thereof, including the right-of-way adjoining the airports for placing thereon telephone, telegraph, electric light or power lines, and to fix the terms, conditions, rents and fees or other charges for such use. Such fees or other charges shall be so fixed and adjusted in respect of the aggregate of fees or other charges from the airports as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues, if any, (i) to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing and operating the airports, (ii) to pay the principal of and interest on such bonds as the same shall become due and payable, and (iii) to create reserves for such purposes. The fees and other charges and all other revenues derived from the airports, except such part thereof as may be necessary to pay such cost of maintenance, repair and operation and provide such reserves as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust agreement securing the same, shall be set aside at such regular intervals as may be provided in such resolution or such trust agreement in a sinking fund which is hereby pledged to, and charged with, the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds as the same shall become due, and the redemption price or the purchase price of bonds retired by call or purchase as therein provided. Such pledge shall be valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made. The fees and other charges and other revenues or other moneys so pledged and thereafter received by the Authority shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract or otherwise against the Authority, irrespective of whether such parties have notice thereof. Neither the resolution nor any trust agreement by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded except in the records of the Authority. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of such trust agreement. Except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or such trust agreement, such sinking fund shall be a fund for all such bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.

 2001, c. [342](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0342).

