# ยง 50-73.58 Voluntary cancellation of certificate of registration.

A. A foreign limited partnership registered to transact business in the Commonwealth may apply to the Commission for a certificate of cancellation to cancel its certificate of registration. The application shall be executed by a general partner or court-appointed fiduciary on a form prescribed and furnished by the Commission, which shall set forth:

1. The name of the foreign limited partnership and the name of the state or other jurisdiction under whose law it is or was formed, and the identification number issued by the Commission to the limited partnership;

2. If applicable, a statement that the foreign limited partnership was a party to a merger permitted by the laws of the state or other jurisdiction under whose laws it was formed and that it was not the surviving entity of the merger;

3. That the foreign limited partnership is not transacting business in the Commonwealth and that it surrenders its registration to transact business in the Commonwealth;

4. That the foreign limited partnership revokes the authority of its registered agent to accept service on its behalf and appoints the clerk of the Commission as its agent for service of process in any proceeding based on a cause of action arising during the time it was authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth;

5. A mailing address to which the clerk of the Commission may mail a copy of any process served on him under subdivision 4; and

6. A commitment to notify the clerk of the Commission in the future of any change in the mailing address of the limited partnership.

B. If the Commission finds that the application complies with the requirements of law and all required fees have been paid, it shall issue a certificate of cancellation canceling the certificate of registration.

C. Before any foreign limited partnership registered to transact business in the Commonwealth cancels its existence, it shall file with the Commission an application for a certificate of cancellation. Whether or not such application is filed, the cancellation of the existence of such foreign limited partnership shall not take away or impair any remedy available against such limited partnership for any right or claim existing or any liability incurred prior to such cancellation. Any such action or proceeding against such foreign limited partnership may be defended by such limited partnership in its name. The general partners and limited partners shall have power to take such action as shall be appropriate to protect such remedy, right, or claim. The right of a foreign limited partnership that has canceled its existence to institute and maintain in its name actions, suits, or proceedings in the courts of the Commonwealth shall be governed by the law of the state of its formation.

D. Service of process on the clerk of the Commission is service of process on a foreign limited partnership whose certificate of registration has been canceled pursuant to this section. Service upon the clerk shall be made in accordance with ยง [12.1-19.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-19.1/), and service upon the foreign limited partnership may be made in any other manner permitted by law.

1985, c. 607; 2008, cc. [588](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0588), [770](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0770); 2009, c. [167](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0167); 2012, c. [130](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0130); 2013, c. [18](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0018).

