# ยง 50-73.61 Transactions not constituting transacting business.

A. The following activities, among others, do not constitute transacting business within the meaning of this article:

1. Maintaining, defending, or settling any proceeding;

2. Holding meetings of its partners or carrying on any other activities concerning its internal affairs;

3. Maintaining bank accounts;

4. Maintaining offices or agencies for the transfer, exchange and registration of the partnership's securities or maintaining trustees or depositaries with respect to those securities;

5. Selling through independent contractors;

6. Soliciting or obtaining orders, whether by mail or through employees or agents or otherwise, if the orders require acceptance outside this Commonwealth before they become contracts;

7. Creating or acquiring indebtedness, deeds of trust, and security interests in real or personal property;

8. Securing or collecting debts or enforcing deeds of trust and security interests in property securing the debts;

9. Owning, without more, personal property;

10. Conducting an isolated transaction that is completed within thirty days and that is not one in the course of repeated transactions of a like nature;

11. For a period of less than ninety consecutive days, producing, directing, filming, crewing or acting in motion picture feature films, television series or commercials, or promotional films which are sent outside of the Commonwealth for processing, editing, marketing and distribution; or

12. Serving, without more, as a general partner of, or as a partner in a partnership which is a general partner of, a domestic or foreign limited partnership which does not otherwise transact business in this Commonwealth.

B. The term "transacting business" as used in this section shall have no effect on personal jurisdiction under ยง [8.01-328.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.01-328.1/).

C. The list of activities in subsection A of this section is not exhaustive. This section does not apply in determining the contracts or activities which may subject a foreign limited partnership to service of process or taxation in this Commonwealth or to regulation under any other law of this Commonwealth.

1985, c. 607; 1987, c. 305; 1990, c. 343.

