# § 50-73.1 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Certificate of limited partnership" means the certificate referred to in § [50-73.11](/vacode/50-73.11/), and the certificate as amended or restated.

"Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.

"Contribution" means any cash, property, services rendered, or a promissory note or other binding obligation to contribute cash or property or to perform services, which a partner contributes to a limited partnership in his capacity as a partner.

"Domestic," with respect to an entity, means an entity governed as to its internal affairs by the organic law of the Commonwealth.

"Domestic business trust" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-1201](/vacode/13.1-1201/).

"Domestic corporation" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-603](/vacode/13.1-603/).

"Domestic limited liability company" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Domestic nonstock corporation" has the same meaning as "domestic corporation" as specified in § [13.1-803](/vacode/13.1-803/).

"Domestic partnership" means an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners a business for profit formed under § [50-73.88](/vacode/50-73.88/), or predecessor law of the Commonwealth, and includes, for all purposes of the laws of the Commonwealth, a registered limited liability partnership.

"Effective date," when referring to a document for which effectiveness is contingent upon the filing with or issuance of a certificate by the Commission, means the time and date determined in accordance with subsection C of § [50-73.17](/vacode/50-73.17/).

"Entity" includes any domestic or foreign limited partnership or other business entity, any estate or trust, and any state, the United States, and any foreign government.

"Event of withdrawal of a general partner" means an event that causes a person to cease to be a general partner as provided in § [50-73.28](/vacode/50-73.28/).

"Foreign," with respect to an entity, means an entity governed as to its internal affairs by the organic law of a jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth.

"Foreign business trust" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-1201](/vacode/13.1-1201/).

"Foreign corporation" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-603](/vacode/13.1-603/).

"Foreign limited liability company" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Foreign limited partnership" means a partnership formed under the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth and having as partners one or more general partners and one or more limited partners.

"Foreign partnership" means an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners of a business for profit formed under the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth, and includes, for all purposes of the laws of the Commonwealth, a foreign registered limited liability partnership.

"Foreign registered limited liability partnership" has the same meaning as specified in § [50-73.79](/vacode/50-73.79/).

"General partner" means a person who has been admitted to a limited partnership as a general partner in accordance with the partnership agreement and named in the certificate of limited partnership as a general partner.

"Jurisdiction of formation" means the state or country the law of which includes the organic law governing a domestic or foreign limited partnership or other business entity.

"Limited partner" means a person who has been admitted to a limited partnership as a limited partner in accordance with the partnership agreement.

"Limited partnership" and "domestic limited partnership" mean a partnership formed by two or more persons under the laws of the Commonwealth and having one or more general partners and one or more limited partners.

"Liquidating trustee" means a person, other than a general partner, but including a limited partner, who carries out the winding up of a limited partnership as provided in this chapter.

"Organic law" means the statute governing the internal affairs of a domestic or foreign limited partnership or eligible entity.

"Other business entity" means a domestic or foreign stock corporation, nonstock corporation, business trust, limited liability company, or partnership.

"Partner" means a limited or general partner.

"Partnership agreement" means any valid agreement, written or oral, of the partners as to the affairs of a limited partnership and the conduct of its business.

"Partnership interest" means a partner's share of the profits and losses of a limited partnership and the right to receive distributions of partnership assets.

"Person" means an individual, partnership, limited partnership (domestic or foreign), trust, estate, association, corporation, or any other legal or commercial entity.

"Principal office" means the office, in or out of the Commonwealth, where the principal executive offices of a domestic or foreign limited partnership are located. Any reference to a specified office contained in the records of the Commission as of July 1, 2010, shall be deemed, in all instances, to be a reference to the principal office of a domestic or foreign limited partnership.

"Protected series" has the same meaning as specified in § [13.1-1002](/vacode/13.1-1002/).

"Registered limited liability partnership" means a limited partnership or general partnership formed under the laws of the Commonwealth that is registered under § [50-73.132](/vacode/50-73.132/).

"State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

1985, c. 607; 1987, c. 702; 1990, c. 343; 1992, c. 575; 1997, c. [190](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0190); 2003, c. [340](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0340); 2007, c. [631](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0631); 2010, c. [675](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0675); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [487](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487).

