# ยง 50-73.12 Amendment of certificate.

A. A certificate of limited partnership is amended by filing with the Commission a certificate of amendment setting forth:

1. The name of the limited partnership;

2. The date of filing of the initial certificate of limited partnership; and

3. The amendment to the certificate.

B. Within 30 days after the happening of any of the following events, an amendment to a certificate of limited partnership reflecting the occurrence of the event or events shall be filed:

1. The admission of a new general partner;

2. The withdrawal of a general partner;

3. The continuation of the business under ยง [50-73.49](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/50-73.49/) after an event of withdrawal of a general partner;

4. A change in the name of the limited partnership or the address of the principal office; or

5. One or more liquidating trustees commence the winding up of the affairs of the limited partnership, in which event the certificate of amendment shall include the name and the business, residence or mailing address of each liquidating trustee.

C. A general partner who becomes aware that any material statement in a certificate of limited partnership was false when made or that any arrangements or other facts described have changed, making the certificate inaccurate in any material respect, shall promptly amend the certificate.

D. A certificate of limited partnership may be amended at any time for any other proper purpose the general partners determine.

E. An amendment to a certificate of limited partnership may delete the name of the initial registered agent or the address of the initial registered office if a statement of change described in ยง [50-73.5](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/50-73.5/) is on file with the Commission.

F. If an amendment to a certificate of limited partnership is filed in compliance with subsection B of this section, no person shall be subject to liability because the amendment was not filed earlier.

G. A restated certificate of limited partnership may be executed and filed in the same manner as a certificate of amendment.

H. A liquidating trustee shall not be subject to liability as a general partner by reason of the execution and filing of a certificate of amendment required by this section.

I. Upon the effective date and time of a certificate of amendment as provided by ยง [50-73.17](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/50-73.17/), the certificate of limited partnership shall be amended as set forth therein.

1985, c. 607; 1987, c. 702; 1990, c. 343; 1993, c. 292; 2007, c. [631](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0631); 2008, c. [586](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0586); 2010, c. [675](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0675).

