# ยง 50-73.58:2 Involuntary cancellation of certificate of registration.

A. The certificate of registration to transact business in the Commonwealth of any foreign limited partnership may be canceled involuntarily by order of the Commission when it finds that the foreign limited partnership:

1. Has continued to exceed or abuse the authority conferred on it by law;

2. Has failed to maintain a registered office or a registered agent in the Commonwealth as required by law;

3. Has failed to file any document required by this chapter to be filed with the Commission;

4. No longer exists under the laws of the state or other jurisdiction of its formation; or

5. Has been convicted for a violation of 8 U.S.C. ยง 1324a (f), as amended, for actions of its partners constituting a pattern or practice of employing unauthorized aliens in the Commonwealth.

B. Before entering any such order, the Commission shall issue a rule against the limited partnership giving it an opportunity to be heard and show cause why such an order should not be entered. The Commission may issue the rule on its own motion or on motion of the Attorney General.

C. The authority of a foreign limited partnership to transact business in the Commonwealth ceases on the date shown on the order canceling its certificate of registration.

D. The Commission's cancellation of a foreign limited partnership's certificate of registration appoints the clerk of the Commission the limited partnership's agent for service of process in any proceeding based on a cause of action arising during the time the limited partnership was authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth. Service of process on the clerk of the Commission under this subsection is service on the foreign limited partnership and shall be made on the clerk in accordance with ยง [12.1-19.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-19.1/).

E. Cancellation of a foreign limited partnership's certificate of registration does not terminate the authority of the registered agent of the foreign limited partnership.

F. Any foreign limited partnership convicted of the offense listed in subdivision A 5 shall immediately report such conviction to the Commission and file with the Commission an authenticated copy of the judgment or record of conviction. A certificate of registration canceled pursuant to subdivision A 5 shall not be eligible for reinstatement for a period of not less than one year.

2008, c. [586](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0586); 2009, c. [167](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0167).

