# § 51.1-124.33 Deposit of trust funds not an investment; authorized deposits.

The Board may authorize the deposit of trust funds in interest-bearing time deposits and certificates of deposit of national banks located within the Commonwealth, of banks organized pursuant to Chapter 8 (§ [6.2-800](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-800/) et seq.) of Title 6.2, of savings institutions which are under state supervision, and of federal associations located in this Commonwealth and organized under the laws of the United States and under federal supervision and federally insured. Such deposits shall not be considered the investment of trust funds for the purposes of this chapter. Deposit of the funds in demand and time deposits and in certificates of deposit of national banks located within this Commonwealth and of banks organized pursuant to the Virginia Banking Act is hereby authorized, provided that the deposits are secured as provided by law and that no deposit is made for any one period in excess of one year. Deposit of trust funds in savings accounts and certificates of savings institutions which are under state supervision and of federal associations located in this Commonwealth and organized under the laws of the United States and under federal supervision is hereby authorized. Such deposits shall not exceed the amount insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or other federal insurance agency, unless deposits in excess of the amount insured are fully collateralized by eligible collateral as defined in § [2.2-4401](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4401/). No such deposit shall be made for any one period in excess of one year.

1980, c. 596, § 51-111.24:4; 1990, cc. 3, 832, § 51.1-122; 1994, cc. [4](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0004), [85](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0085).

