# § 51.1-1121 Supplemental short-term disability benefit.

A. Payments of supplemental short-term disability benefits payable under this article shall be reduced by an amount equal to any benefits paid to the employee under the Act, or which the employee is entitled to receive under the Act, excluding any payments for medical, legal or rehabilitation expenses.

B. Supplemental short-term disability benefits for participating employees shall commence upon the expiration of a seven-calendar-day waiting period. The waiting period shall commence the first day of a disability. If an employee returns to work for one day or less during the seven calendar days following the commencement of a disability but cannot continue to work, the periods worked shall not be considered to have interrupted the seven-calendar-day waiting period. Additionally, the seven-calendar-day waiting period shall not be considered to be interrupted if the employee works 20 hours or less during the waiting period. Short-term disability benefits payable as the result of a catastrophic disability or major chronic condition shall not require a waiting period.

C. Except as provided in subsections D and F and §§ [9.1-401.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-401.1/) and [51.1-1131](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1131/), supplemental short-term disability coverage shall provide income replacement for a percentage of a participating employee's creditable compensation during the period specified below that an employee is disabled or takes periodic absences due to a major chronic condition, as determined by the Board or its designee, based on the number of months of state service as an eligible employee, as follows:



| a |  | Work days of 100% | Work days of 80% | Work days of 60% |
| b | Months of | replacement of | replacement of | replacement of |
| c | state service | creditable compensation | creditable compensation | creditable compensation |
| d | Less than 60 | 65 | 25 | 35 |
| e | 60 to 119 | 85 | 25 | 15 |
| f | 120 or more | 85 | 40 | 0 |

D. For all eligible employees commencing employment or reemployment on or after July 1, 2009, except as provided in subsection F and §§ [9.1-401.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-401.1/) and [51.1-1131](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1131/), short-term disability coverage shall provide income replacement for (i) 60 percent of a participating employee's creditable compensation for the first 60 months of continuous state service after employment or reemployment and (ii) thereafter, a percentage of a participating employee's creditable compensation during the periods specified below, based on the number of months of continuous state service attained by an employee who is disabled, on maternity leave, or takes periodic absences due to a major chronic condition, as determined by the Board or its designee, as follows:



| a |  | Work days of 100% | Work days of 80% | Work days of 60% |
| b | Months of | replacement of | replacement of | replacement of |
| c | state service | creditable compensation | creditable compensation | creditable compensation |
| d | 60 to 119 | 85 | 25 | 15 |
| e | 120 or more | 85 | 40 | 0 |

E. Creditable compensation during periods an employee receives supplemental short-term disability benefits shall include salary increases awarded during the period of short-term disability coverage.  


F. An employee's disability credits may be used, on a day for day basis, to extend the period an employee receives supplemental short-term disability benefits paid at 100 percent of replacement of creditable compensation.

G. Supplemental short-term disability benefits shall be payable only during periods of (i) total disability, (ii) partial disability as determined by the Board or its designee, or (iii) periodic absences due to a major chronic condition as defined by the Board or its designee.

1998, c. [774](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0774); 1999, c. [144](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0144); 2000, c. [889](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0889); 2010, c. [654](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0654); 2012, c. [417](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0417).

