# ยง 51.1-124.7 Distribution of assets upon repeal of system.

A. If the General Assembly repeals the provisions of this chapter or terminates its application to any person, the Board shall continue to administer the Retirement System in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for the sole benefit of the then members, any beneficiaries then receiving retirement allowances, and any future persons entitled to receive benefits under a joint and last-survivor option who are designated by a member.

B. Upon repeal or termination of the Retirement System, the assets of the Retirement System shall be allocated by the Board in an equitable manner to provide benefits for the persons stated in subsection A of this section in accordance with the provisions of this chapter but based on creditable service and average final compensation as of the date of repeal or termination and in the following order:

1. For the benefit of the then members to the extent of their individual account in the members' contribution account.

2. If any funds remain, then for the benefit of the then beneficiaries and persons already designated by former members who are then beneficiaries under a joint and last-survivor option, to the extent of the then actuarial value of their retirement allowances.

3. If any funds remain, then for the benefit of members, and persons, if any, designated by them under a joint and last-survivor option, to the extent, not provided under subdivision 1 of this subsection, of the then actuarial value of their accrued future retirement allowances. The allocation under this subdivision shall be the basis of the oldest-ages-first method.

The employer is required to contribute the amount necessary to make up any insufficiency of assets needed to provide all benefits payable under subdivisions 1 and 2 of this subsection.

C. The allocation of assets of the Retirement System shall be carried out by the Board as the benefits become due or by the transfer of such assets to any retirement system replacing this Retirement System. The vesting of benefits shall be fully maintained under the new retirement system. Any funds remaining in the assets of this retirement system after all of the vested benefits have been paid shall revert to the general fund.

D. Any allocation of assets shall be final and binding on all persons entitled to benefits.

E. Upon the termination or partial termination of the Retirement System, each affected member shall become fully vested, as of the termination date or partial termination date, in his service retirement allowance to the extent funded, regardless of the length of service or amount of creditable service.

1952, c. 157, ยง 51-111.16; 1960, c. 604; 1977, c. 620; 1978, c. 841; 1980, cc. 637, 638, 646; 1982, cc. 467, 478; 1990, c. 832, ยง 51.1-105; 1994, cc. [4](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0004), [85](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0085); 2014, c. [356](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0356).

