# ยง 51.1-801 Counties, cities, and towns generally.

The governing body of any county, city, or town may, by ordinance adopted by a recorded vote of a majority of the members elected, establish a retirement system. The retirement system may cover injured or retired officers and employees of the county, city, or town. Benefits may be payable to the officers and employees or their dependents, estates, or designated beneficiaries. The retirement system may provide for accrued vested or contractual rights thereunder. The local governing body may, through self-funding or the purchase of insurance and annuities, or a combination thereof, provide retirement allowances, death benefits, and group life insurance coverage for officers and employees of the county, city, or town and group accident and sickness insurance coverage for officers and employees of the county, city, or town and their dependents. The governing body may by ordinance establish a fund for the payment of retirement allowances, death benefits, and insurance and annuity premiums by appropriating funds from the treasury of the county, city, or town or by requiring employee contributions through payroll deductions, or both, or by any other mode not prohibited by law.

For the purposes of this section, the term "employees" may include teachers or other employees of county, city, and town school boards.

If any county, city, or town participates in the Virginia Retirement System and also establishes a local retirement system providing supplemental benefits to the employees covered under the Virginia Retirement System, the local system shall not be required to satisfy the retirement age and service criterion established in clause A (i) of ยง [51.1-800](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-800/).

Code 1919, ยง 3035; 1932, p. 752; 1942, p. 178; 1944, p. 54; 1945, p. 74; 1946, p. 61; Code 1950, ยง 51-112; 1952, cc. 59, 587; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 58; 1960, c. 404; 1968, c. 60; 1980, c. 135; 1989, Sp. Sess., c. 3; 1990, c. 832.

