# ยง 51.1-156 Disability retirement.

A. Any member in service or within ninety days after termination of service who has not withdrawn his accumulated contributions as provided for in ยง [51.1-128](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-128/) may retire for disability not compensable under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act (ยง [65.2-100](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/65.2-100/) et seq.) upon written notification to the Board setting forth the date the retirement is to become effective.

B. Any member in service or within ninety days after termination of service may retire for disability from a cause compensable under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act upon written notification to the Board setting forth the date the retirement is to become effective.

C. If no compensation is finally awarded under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act, due to legal proceedings or otherwise resulting in settlement from the persons causing the disability, the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission shall determine whether the member's disability is from a cause compensable under the Virginia Workers' Compensation Act.

D. The effective date of retirement shall be after the member's last day of service but shall not be more than ninety days prior to the filing of the notice of retirement. The Board may waive the ninety-day requirement upon a showing of good cause.

E. After a medical examination of the member or after reviewing pertinent medical records, the Medical Board shall certify that (i) the member is and has been continuously since the effective date of retirement if prior to filing of the notification, mentally or physically incapacitated for the further performance of duty, (ii) the incapacity is likely to be permanent, and (iii) the member should be retired. A member shall not be retired for disability for any condition which existed at the time of becoming a member unless medical evidence, convincing to the Board, supports the fact that the pre-existing condition has worsened substantially.

F. In the event the member is physically or mentally unable to submit written notification of his intention to retire, the member's appointing authority may submit notification on his behalf.

G. Any member who has been on leave of absence without pay for a period exceeding twenty-four months shall not be entitled to retire under the provisions of this section. This subsection shall not apply to any member who is disabled while on leave without pay while performing active duty military service in the armed forces of the United States.

H. For good cause shown, the Board may waive the ninety-day notification periods set forth in subsections A and B. For purposes of this section, good cause shall exist and the Board shall waive such ninety-day notification periods if (i) the member would otherwise qualify for disability retirement but for failing to comply with the requirements of subsection A or B and (ii) the Medical Board, acting solely in its own discretion after reviewing objective medical evidence of the disability and its cause, certifies that: (a) the disability and its cause existed on the date the member's employment was terminated, (b) the member had no knowledge of the existence of the disability and its cause at any time within ninety days after the date the member's employment was terminated, and (c) the member could not, with reasonable inquiry, have ascertained the existence of the disability and its cause within ninety days after the date the member's employment was terminated.

1952, c. 157, ยง 51-111.56; 1960, c. 604; 1964, c. 186; 1966, c. 174; 1973, c. 523; 1982, c. 427; 1986, c. 474; 1988, c. 724; 1990, c. 832; 1992, c. 811; 1995, c. [307](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0307); 2009, c. [362](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0362).

