# ยง 51.1-1110 Short-term disability benefit.

A. Except as provided in subsection D of ยง [51.1-1103](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1103/), short-term disability benefits for participating employees shall commence upon the expiration of a seven-calendar-day waiting period. The waiting period shall commence the first day of a disability or of maternity leave. If an employee returns to work for one day or less during the seven-calendar-day waiting period but cannot continue to work, the periods worked shall not be considered to have interrupted the seven-calendar-day waiting period. Additionally, the seven-calendar-day waiting period shall not be considered to be interrupted if the employee works 20 hours or less during the waiting period. Short-term disability benefits payable as the result of a catastrophic disability or major chronic condition shall not require a waiting period.

B. Except as provided in subsections C and E of this section and ยง [51.1-1131](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1131/), short-term disability coverage shall provide income replacement for a percentage of a participating employee's creditable compensation during the period specified below that an employee is disabled, on maternity leave, or takes periodic absences due to a major chronic condition, as determined by the Board or its designee, based on the number of months of state service as an eligible employee, as follows:



|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a |  | Work days of 100% | Work days of 80% | Work days of 60% |
| b | Months of | replacement of | replacement of | replacement of |
| c | state service | creditable compensation | creditable compensation | creditable compensation |
| d | Less than 60 | 5 | 20 | 100 |
| e | 60 to 119 | 25 | 25 | 75 |
| f | 120 to 179 | 25 | 50 | 50 |
| g | 180 or more | 25 | 75 | 25 |

C. For all eligible employees commencing employment or reemployment on or after July 1, 2009, except as provided in subsections B and E of this section and ยง [51.1-1131](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1131/), short-term disability coverage shall provide income replacement for (i) 60 percent of a participating employee's creditable compensation for the first 60 months of continuous state service after employment or reemployment and (ii) thereafter, a percentage of a participating employee's creditable compensation during the periods that he is disabled, on maternity leave, or takes periodic absences due to a major chronic condition, based on the number of months of continuous state service, as determined by the Board or its designee, as follows:



|  |  |  |  |  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| a |  | Work days of 100% | Work days of 80% | Work days of 60% |
| b | Months of | replacement of | replacement of | replacement of |
| c | state service | creditable compensation | creditable compensation | creditable compensation |
| d | 60 to 119 | 25 | 25 | 75 |
| e | 120 to 179 | 25 | 50 | 50 |
| f | 180 or more | 25 | 75 | 25 |

D. Creditable compensation during periods an employee receives short-term disability benefits shall include general salary increases awarded during the period of short-term disability coverage.  


E. An employee's disability credits may be used, on a day for day basis, to extend the period an employee receives short-term disability benefits paid at 100 percent of replacement of creditable compensation.

F. Short-term disability benefits shall be payable only during periods of (i) total disability, (ii) partial disability, (iii) maternity leave, or (iv) periodic absences due to a major chronic condition as defined by the Board or its designee.

1998, c. [774](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0774); 1999, c. [144](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0144); 2000, c. [889](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0889); 2004, c. [1019](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1019); 2010, c. [750](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0750); 2012, c. [417](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0417).

