# § 51.1-124.20 Board of Trustees; membership; terms; quorum; compensation and expenses.

A. The Board of Trustees of the Virginia Retirement System is established as an independent board in state government and shall consist of nine members as follows: five members appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the affirmative vote of a majority of those voting in each house of the General Assembly and four members appointed by the Joint Rules Committee and confirmed by the affirmative vote of a majority of those voting in each house of the General Assembly.

B. Members shall be appointed for five-year terms with such members leaving the Board on a staggered basis as initially provided. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be for the unexpired terms. A vacancy of a legislatively appointed trustee shall be filled by the Joint Rules Committee, and any such appointee shall enter upon and continue in office, subject to confirmation at the next session of the General Assembly. If the General Assembly refuses or fails to confirm his appointment, such person shall not be eligible for reappointment.

C. No member shall be eligible to serve for more than two successive five-year terms. After the expiration of an unexpired term to which appointed, or for an initial staggered appointment of less than five years, a member may serve one additional five-year term.

D. Subject to confirmation by the affirmative vote of a majority of those voting in each house of the General Assembly, the Governor shall designate the chairman of the Board from among the Board members described in subsection A above. A chairman may be reappointed and confirmed for additional two-year terms, not to exceed a total of two. However, the initial chairman's one-year term shall not be counted against the two-term limitation, and such person may serve as chairman for five successive years if appointed and confirmed as aforesaid. The chairman shall (i) preside over meetings of the Board; (ii) communicate on behalf of the Board to outside entities interested in the Retirement System; and (iii) perform additional duties as may be set by resolution of the Board. The Board shall elect one of its members as vice-chairman and appoint a secretary who may or may not be a member of the Board. A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

E. Trustees shall receive an initial stipend of $3,000 for each calendar quarter they may serve and a per diem of $300 for each Board meeting attended not to exceed one meeting per day. Commencing July 1, 1995, the stipend shall be increased annually by a percentage equal to the most recent salary structure adjustment as provided in the general appropriation act. The chairman shall receive an additional $1,500 for each calendar quarter served in such capacity. Government employees, still actively employed by any governmental entity, shall receive a per diem of $300 for each Board meeting attended, not to exceed one meeting per day, but shall receive no stipend for their service. Retired government employees shall be entitled to receive a stipend of $3,000 for each calendar quarter they may serve and a per diem of $300 for each Board meeting attended not to exceed one meeting per day. Each Board member shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred for attending Board meetings as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/). Any member of the Board who also serves as an officer, director, or member of the board of any corporation organized by the Virginia Retirement System shall be entitled to receive compensation and expenses pursuant to this subsection in addition to any remuneration to which he is entitled by virtue of his service as an officer, director, or member of the board of any corporation organized by the Virginia Retirement System. Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Virginia Retirement System.

F. No elected or appointed official shall serve on the Board of Trustees. Except for the faculty member or employee of a public institution of higher education, none of the gubernatorial appointees shall be an employee of state government.

G. The gubernatorial appointees shall be as follows: two shall have a minimum of five years of experience in the direct management, analysis, supervision, or investment of assets; one shall have at least five years of direct experience in the management and administration of employee benefit plans; one shall be a local employee; and one shall be a faculty member or employee of a public institution of higher education.

H. The legislative appointees shall be as follows: two shall have a minimum of five years of experience in the direct management, analysis, supervision, or investment of assets; and one shall be a state employee and one shall be a teacher, as such terms are defined in § [51.1-124.3](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-124.3/).

I. State and local government employees appointed to the Board pursuant to this section shall be members of the Retirement System at the time of their appointment, may be actively employed or retired, and if actively employed, shall be given administrative leave from their employment to attend Board and advisory committee meetings.

J. Members of the Board shall be subject to removal from office only as set forth in Article 7 (§§ [24.2-230](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-230/) through [24.2-238](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-238/)) of Chapter 2 of Title 24.2. The Circuit Court of the City of Richmond shall have exclusive jurisdiction over all proceedings for such removal.

K. Faculty members of public institutions of higher education shall be eligible to serve on the Board pursuant to this section if they are members of the Retirement System at the time of their confirmation to the Board or become members of the Retirement System within 18 months after their confirmation to the Board.

L. All members of the Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.

1952, c. 157, §§ 51-111.18 to 51-111.20; 1956, c. 363; 1958, c. 419; 1970, c. 476; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 88; 1973, c. 523; 1974, c. 353; 1977, c. 620; 1980, cc. 681, 728; 1989, c. 41; 1990, c. 832, § 51.1-109; 1994, cc. [4](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0004), [85](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0085); 1995, c. [788](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0788); 1997, c. [641](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0641); 1998, c. [196](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0196); 2004, c. [1000](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1000).

