# ยง 51.1-1163 Supplemental short-term disability benefit.

A. Payments of supplemental short-term disability benefits payable under this article shall be reduced by an amount equal to any benefits paid to the employee under the Act, or which the employee is entitled to receive under the Act, excluding any payments for medical, legal or rehabilitation expenses.

B. Supplemental short-term disability benefits for participating employees shall commence upon the expiration of a seven-calendar-day waiting period. The waiting period shall commence the first day of a disability. If an employee returns to work for one day or less during the seven calendar days following the commencement of a disability but cannot continue to work, the periods worked shall not be considered to have interrupted the seven-calendar-day waiting period. Additionally, the seven-calendar-day waiting period shall not be considered to be interrupted if the employee works 20 hours or less during the waiting period. Short-term disability benefits payable as the result of a catastrophic disability or major chronic condition shall not require any waiting period.

C. Except as provided in ยง [51.1-1171](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/51.1-1171/), supplemental short-term disability coverage shall provide income replacement for (i) 60 percent of a participating employee's creditable compensation for the first 60 months of continuous participation in the program and (ii) thereafter, a percentage of a participating employee's creditable compensation during the periods specified below, based on the number of months of continuous participation in the program attained by an employee who is disabled, on maternity leave, or takes periodic absences due to a major chronic condition, as determined by the Board or its designee, as follows:



| a | Months ofContinuous Participation | Work Days of 100%Replacement ofCreditable Compensation | Work Days of 80%Replacement ofCreditable Compensation | Work Days of 60%Replacement ofCreditable Compensation |
| b | 60 to 119 | 85 | 25 | 15 |
| c | 120 or more | 85 | 40 | 0 |

D. Creditable compensation during periods an employee receives supplemental short-term disability benefits shall include salary increases awarded during the period of short-term disability coverage.  


E. Supplemental short-term disability benefits shall be payable only during periods of total disability, partial disability, or periodic absences due to a major chronic condition as defined by the Board or its designee.

2012, cc. [701](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0701), [823](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0823); 2013, c. [463](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0463).

