# ยง 51.1-702 Federal-state agreement.

A. The state social security administrator, with the approval of the Governor, is hereby authorized to enter on behalf of the Commonwealth into an agreement with the federal agency to extend the benefits of the Social Security Act to employees of the Commonwealth and any political subdivision thereof, with respect to services specified in the agreement, which constitute employment. The agreement may contain such provisions relating to coverage, benefits, effective date, modification of the agreement, administration, and other appropriate provisions as the state social security administrator and federal agency shall agree upon, but, except as may be otherwise required by applicable federal law as to the services to be covered, the agreement shall provide in effect that:

1. Benefits shall be provided for employees whose services are covered by the agreement, and their dependents and survivors, on the same basis as though such services constituted employment within the meaning of the Social Security Act.

2. The employer shall pay to the Internal Revenue Service, at the time prescribed by applicable federal law, contributions with respect to wages equal to the applicable taxes which would be imposed by the "Rate of Tax" sections of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act if the services covered by the agreement constituted employment within the meaning of that act.

3. All services which constitute employment and are performed in the employ of the Commonwealth by state employees shall be covered by the agreement.

4. All services which (i) constitute employment, (ii) are performed in the employ of a political subdivision, and (iii) are covered by a plan of agreement which is in conformity with the terms of the agreement and has been approved by the state social security administrator, shall be covered by the agreement. Services rendered in the employ of a county, city, or other school board shall be covered by the agreement on the effective date specified therein not prior to January 1, 1951.

5. A political subdivision which is operating under a retirement system which it finances may continue the same or may apply for coverage of its employees under the agreement, or both.

B. The state social security administrator, with the approval of the Board, is authorized to submit and agree to modifications to the agreement relating to coverage, benefits effective dates, administration, and other appropriate provisions as the state social security administrator and the federal agency may agree upon.

1952, c. 2, ยง 51-111.3; 1956, c. 561; 1980, c. 647; 1984, c. 430; 1990, c. 832; 2005, c. [902](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0902).

