# § 51.5-169.2 Employment Service Organization Steering Committee; membership; terms.

A. The Employment Service Organization Steering Committee (the Committee) is established as an advisory board, within the meaning of § [2.2-2100](/vacode/2.2-2100/), in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Committee shall be to report to and advise the Commissioner on policy, funding, and the allocation of funds to employment services organizations for Long-Term Employment Support Services and Extended Employment Services pursuant to § [51.5-169.1](/vacode/51.5-169.1/).

B. The Committee shall consist of 11 nonlegislative citizen members who shall be appointed as follows: four members to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, two of whom shall be representatives of the Virginia Association of Community Rehabilitation Programs, one of whom shall be a representative of the Virginia Goodwill Network, and one of whom shall be a representative of the Virginia Association of People Supporting Employment First; five members to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates, two of whom shall be representatives of the Virginia Association of Community Rehabilitation Programs, one of whom shall be a representative of the Virginia Goodwill Network, one of whom shall be a representative of the Virginia Association of People Supporting Employment First, and one of whom shall be an individual who has a family member receiving services in an employment services organization that is eligible to receive funding pursuant to § [51.5-169.1](/vacode/51.5-169.1/); and two at-large members to be appointed by the Governor. No employee, agent, or representative of the Commonwealth may serve as a member of the Committee.

C. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.

No member shall serve more than two consecutive three-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment.

D. Each year, the Committee shall elect a chairman and a vice-chairman from among its members. Five members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum. The Committee shall meet no more than four times per year.

E. Members shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](/vacode/2.2-2825/).

2019, c. [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0851), [852](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0852).

