# ยง 52-34.9 Activation of Blue Alert Program.

A. Upon notification by a law-enforcement agency that a suspect in a case involving the death or serious injury of a law-enforcement officer has not been apprehended and may be a serious threat to the public, the Department of State Police shall confirm that (i) a suspect has not been apprehended, (ii) the suspect may be a serious threat to the public, and (iii) sufficient information is available to disseminate to the public that could assist in locating the suspect.

B. Upon notification by a law-enforcement agency that a law-enforcement officer is missing while in the line of duty under circumstances warranting concern for such law-enforcement officer's safety, the Department of State Police shall confirm this information and determine whether sufficient information is available to disseminate to the public that could assist in locating the missing law-enforcement officer.

C. Upon verification that conditions set forth in subsection A or B have been met, the Department of State Police shall activate the Blue Alert Program.

D. The area of the alert may be less than statewide if the Department of State Police determines that the nature of the event makes it probable that the suspect did not leave a certain geographic location or if the nature of the event makes it probable that the missing law-enforcement officer is within a certain geographic location. The Department of State Police shall assess the appropriate boundaries for the alert based on the nature of the suspect, the circumstances surrounding the crime or the last known location of the missing law-enforcement officer.

E. The Blue Alert shall include such information as the Department of State Police deems appropriate that will assist in the apprehension of the suspect or the locating of the missing law-enforcement officer.

F. A law-enforcement agency shall notify the Department of State Police immediately when the suspect is located or the law-enforcement officer is found or the incident is otherwise resolved.

G. The Department of State Police shall terminate any activation of the Blue Alert Program with respect to a particular incident if (i) the suspect or law-enforcement officer is located or the incident is otherwise resolved or (ii) the Department of State Police determines that the Blue Alert Program is no longer an effective tool for locating the suspect or law-enforcement officer.

2011, c. [669](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0669).

