# ยง 52-4.3 Drug Investigation Special Trust Account.

A. There is hereby created in the Department of the Treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Drug Investigation Special Trust Account, consisting of such funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly from time to time and all interest, dividends and appreciation, including payments to the fund from the federal government by virtue of a grant, gift, forfeiture or other disposition, which may accrue to such fund, for the purpose of providing a timely supplemental source of money to the Department of State Police for use in the detection, investigation and apprehension of persons for the violation of the laws pertaining to the manufacture, sale or distribution of illegal drugs.

B. Funds from the Drug Investigation Special Trust Account shall be used to supplement general appropriations for the Department of State Police Bureau of Criminal Investigations and a division for drug law enforcement and investigation for nonpersonal service expenditures related to illegal drug investigations. They shall be used only for the purposes stated in subsection A and in strict conformity with the rules and regulations promulgated by the Superintendent of State Police to carry out the intent and purposes of this section.

C. No expenditures shall be made from the Drug Investigation Trust Account except in strict compliance with procedures established by the Superintendent of State Police and approved by the State Comptroller. The accounting for all such expenditures shall also be in strict compliance with such procedures.

D. The Drug Investigation Special Trust Account shall be established on the books of the Comptroller so as to segregate the amounts appropriated to the account and the amounts earned or accumulated by such special trust account. No portion of such special trust account shall be used for a purpose other than for drug investigations. Funds remaining in the Drug Investigation Special Trust Account at the end of a biennium shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the special trust account, to be used for the purposes set forth in subsections A through C and shall accumulate interest and dividends throughout the existence of the special trust account. Any funds, however, remaining in the special trust account at the end of a biennium in excess of $1,500,000 shall revert to the general fund.

1972, c. 320; 1982, c. 431; 1989, c. 168; 2000, cc. [560](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0560), [600](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0600).

