# § 53.1-2 Appointment of members; qualifications; terms and vacancies.

There shall be a State Board of Local and Regional Jails, which shall consist of nine residents of the Commonwealth appointed by the Governor and subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. In making appointments the Governor shall endeavor to select appointees of such qualifications and experience that the membership of the Board shall include persons suitably qualified to consider and act upon the various matters under the Board's jurisdiction. Members of the Board shall be appointed as follows: (i) one former sheriff or one former warden, superintendent, administrator, or operations manager of a state or local correctional facility; (ii) one individual employed by a public mental health services agency with training in or clinical, managerial, or other relevant experience working with individuals subject to the criminal justice system who have mental illness; (iii) one individual with experience overseeing a correctional facility's or mental health facility's compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations; (iv) one physician licensed in the Commonwealth; (v) one individual with experience in administering educational or vocational programs in state or local correctional facilities; (vi) one individual with experience in financial management or performing audit investigations; (vii) one citizen member who represents community interests; and (viii) two individuals with experience in conducting criminal, civil, or death investigations.

Members of the Board shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor and shall be appointed for terms of four years. A vacancy other than by expiration of term shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired term.

No person shall be eligible to serve more than two full consecutive four-year terms.

Code 1950, §§ 53-19.23, 53-19.24; 1974, cc. 44, 45; 1981, c. 487; 1982, c. 636; 2017, c. [759](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0759); 2020, c. [759](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0759).

