# ยง 53.1-87 Cost of maintenance of jails; payment by localities of respective shares of costs; judicial resolution of disagreements.

A. In any instance in which a local correctional facility of a county, city or town is designated by the Board as the place where prisoners committed by the courts or other authorities of any other county, city or town shall be confined, any capital outlay expenses incurred for necessary repairs, improvements or additions to such facility, and all costs of maintenance of the facility chargeable to the localities, shall be borne ratably by the several counties, cities or towns using it.

B. The share of each respective county, city or town involved in such costs shall be such proportion of the total cost of such repairs, improvements, additions and other such costs as the total aggregate number of days spent in local correctional facilities by prisoners committed by the courts or other authorities of such county, city or town, for the five-year period next preceding the year in which such repairs, improvements or additions are begun, or other costs incurred, bears to the total aggregate number of days spent in local correctional facilities by the prisoners committed by the courts or other authorities of both or all of the counties, cities and towns using the facility to which such repairs, improvements or additions are made or in which such other costs are incurred. The amount to be paid by each county, city or town involved shall be determined by the Board on the basis herein set forth.

C. The Board shall furnish a statement of the several shares of the cost so determined to the governing body of each county, city and town involved, and the respective shares shall be paid within thirty days from the date upon which such statement is furnished. If the costs of any such repairs, improvements or additions will not exceed $2000 they may be authorized by the governing body of the county, city or town to whose correctional facility such repairs, improvements or additions are to be made. If the costs will exceed $2000, such repairs, improvements or additions shall be recommended by the Board and agreed on in advance by the governing bodies of both or all of the counties, cities and towns involved.

In case of disagreement, the matter of the extent of the repairs, improvements or additions and the proportionate cost to the respective localities involved shall be determined by the circuit court of the locality which owns or maintains the correctional institution proposed to be repaired, improved or added to, upon the petition of the Board.

Code 1950, ยง 53-136; 1970, c. 648; 1982, c. 636.

