# ยง 53.1-124 Sheriffs and jail superintendents to report to the courts.

A. If requested by the judge, the sheriffs of all local jails and the jail superintendents of all regional jails of this Commonwealth shall, on the first day of each term of the circuit court, make written reports to the judge thereof, to the attorney for the Commonwealth, and to city attorneys whose duties include prosecuting certain cases, showing the number of prisoners in jail on that day. The report shall show the name, date of commitment, offense and sentence of each prisoner. The judge of such court, after examining the report, shall enter an order directing the clerk to file the same in the clerk's office of such court.

B. If requested by the chief judge of the circuit court, general district court or juvenile and domestic relations district court, the sheriffs of all local jails and the jail superintendents of all regional jails of the Commonwealth shall report semimonthly to the circuit court, general district court, and juvenile and domestic relations district court, to the attorney for the Commonwealth, and to the public defender, if any, as established in Article 3.1 (ยง [19.2-163.01](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/19.2-163.01/) et seq.) of Chapter 10 of Title 19.2, showing the number of prisoners in jail on that day awaiting trial. The report shall include the name, offense, date of commitment to jail, and amount of bail established.

C. If requested by the judge, the sheriffs of all local jails and the jail superintendents of all regional jails shall report weekly to the juvenile and domestic relations district court located within that county, city or region concerning the identity and number of juveniles kept in their jails and the length of time such juveniles have been incarcerated therein.

Code 1950, ยง 53-172; 1976, c. 248; 1982, c. 636; 1990, c. 934; 1991, cc. 218, 383; 2004, cc. [884](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0884), [921](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0921).

