# ยง 54.1-4413.2 Issuance, renewal, and reinstatement of licenses and lifting the suspension of privileges.

A. A Virginia license shall provide its holder with the privilege to use the CPA title in Virginia or provide attest services, compilation services, and financial statement preparation services to persons and entities located in Virginia.

B. A license granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be renewed as prescribed by the Board. Any license not renewed pursuant to the provisions prescribed by the Board shall be considered to have expired and the person or firm shall be considered to no longer hold a Virginia license.

C. A person whose Virginia license expired may obtain a new Virginia license under subsection C of ยง [54.1-4409.2](/vacode/54.1-4409.2/) if he holds the license of another state.

D. The license of a person whose Virginia license expired and who does not hold the license of another state may be reinstated under this subsection. In addition, a person whose privilege of using the CPA title in Virginia was suspended may have the suspension lifted under this subsection.

1. To be considered for reinstatement of a Virginia license or lifting the suspension of the privilege of using the CPA title in Virginia, a person shall:

a. Disclose to the Board why he no longer holds a Virginia license or why his privilege of using the CPA title in Virginia was suspended;

b. Disclose to the Board each state in which he has held a license. For each of the states in which the person has held a license, the person shall disclose why he no longer holds a license and provide documentation from the board of accountancy concerning whether he has been found guilty of any violations of the standards of conduct and practice established by statutes of the state or regulations promulgated by the board; and

c. Describe his continuing professional education since his Virginia license expired or was suspended. The Board shall determine whether his continuing professional education complies with the continuing professional education requirement prescribed by the Board for that period.

2. After evaluating the information provided by the person, the Board may request additional information and may impose additional requirements for reinstatement of the Virginia license or lifting the suspension.

3. The Board shall communicate to the person its decision and, if the request for reinstatement or lifting the suspension is denied, the reasons for the denial. The request may be resubmitted when the person believes the matters affecting the request have been satisfactorily resolved. The person may request a proceeding in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

E. The license of a firm whose Virginia license expired may be reinstated under this subsection. In addition, a firm whose privilege of providing attest services, compilation services, or financial statement preparation services to persons or entities located in Virginia was suspended may have the suspension lifted under this subsection.

1. To be considered for reinstatement of a Virginia license or lifting the suspension of the privilege of providing attest services, compilation services, or financial statement preparation services to persons or entities located in Virginia:

a. The firm shall disclose to the Board why it no longer holds a Virginia license or why its privilege of providing attest services, compilation services, or financial statement preparation services to persons or entities located in Virginia was suspended.

b. The firm shall disclose to the Board each state in which it holds or has held a license.

c. For each of the states in which the firm holds a license, the firm shall provide documentation from the board of accountancy concerning whether it is in good standing with the board, whether there are any pending actions alleging violations of the standards of conduct and practice established by statutes of the state or regulations promulgated by the board, and whether it has been found guilty of any violations of these standards of conduct and practice.

d. For each of the states in which the firm has held a license, the firm shall disclose why it no longer holds a license and provide documentation from the board of accountancy concerning whether it has been found guilty of any violations of the standards of conduct and practice established by statutes of the state or regulations promulgated by the board.

2. After evaluating the information provided by the firm, the Board may request additional information and may impose additional requirements for reinstatement of the Virginia license or lifting the suspension.

3. The Board shall communicate to the firm its decision and, if the request for reinstatement or lifting the suspension is denied, the reasons for the denial. The request may be resubmitted when the firm believes the matters affecting the request have been satisfactorily resolved. The firm may request a proceeding in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Process Act (ยง [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

F. The Board shall consider granting the privilege of using the CPA title in Virginia, or the privilege of providing attest services, compilation services, or financial statement preparation services to persons or entities located in Virginia, to persons or firms that have had the privilege revoked only when the person or firm demonstrates to the Board that there are special facts and circumstances that warrant reconsideration by the Board of whether it should allow the person or firm to have the privilege.

2007, c. [804](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0804); 2015, c. [287](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0287); 2017, c. [403](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0403); 2018, cc. [45](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0045), [82](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0082).

