# ยง 54.1-3011 Renewal of licenses; lapsed licenses; reinstatement; penalties.

A. Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be renewed biennially by such time as the Board may prescribe by regulation. The Board shall mail or send electronically a notice for renewal to every licensee, but the failure to receive such notice shall not excuse any licensee from the requirements for renewal. The person receiving such notice shall furnish the requested information and return the form to the Board with the renewal fee.

B. Any licensee who allows his license to lapse by failing to renew the license may be reinstated by the Board upon submission of satisfactory evidence that he is prepared to resume practice in a competent manner and upon payment of the fee.

C. Any person practicing nursing during the time his license has lapsed shall be considered an illegal practitioner and shall be subject to the penalties provided for violations of this chapter.

D. When the Board of Health has issued an emergency order pursuant to ยง [32.1-13](/vacode/32.1-13/), the Board may waive (i) the requirement for submission of a fee for renewal of a license or (ii) the requirement for submission of evidence satisfactory to the Board that a licensee whose license was allowed to lapse by failing to renew his license is prepared to resume practice in a competent manner for any person who held a valid, unrestricted, active license to practice nursing within the four-year period immediately prior to the application for renewal of such license.

Code 1950, ยง 54-352; 1956, c. 48; 1970, c. 116, ยง 54-367.25; 1974, c. 194; 1979, c. 5; 1982, c. 598; 1988, c. 765; 2018, c. [101](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0101); 2022, cc. [720](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0720), [753](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0753).

