# ยง 54.1-3709 Unlawful designation as social worker.

A. It shall be unlawful for any person not licensed under this chapter to use the title "Social Worker" in writing or in advertising in connection with his practice unless he simultaneously uses clarifying initials that signify receiving a baccalaureate or master's degree in social work from an accredited social work school or program approved by the Council on Social Work Education or a doctorate in social work.

B. If a complaint or report of a possible violation of this section is made against any person who is licensed, certified, registered, or permitted, or who holds a multistate licensure privilege issued by any of the health regulatory boards within the Department of Health Professions, that complaint shall be referred to the applicable board within the Department for disciplinary action. A violation of this section shall be a Class 1 misdemeanor.

C. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any individual meeting the qualifications provided for in 42 C.F.R. Part 483 may practice as a "qualified social worker" in any licensed nursing home using such title. However, any such individual may only use the title "social worker" in connection with the activities of the nursing home.

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, any individual meeting the qualifications provided for in 42 C.F.R. ยง 418.114(b)(3) may practice as a "social worker" in any licensed hospice using such title. However, any such individual may only use the title "social worker" in connection with the activities of the hospice.

E. That nothing in this act shall be construed as requiring the Department of Social Services, or any other entity, to hire licensed social workers or social workers with a baccalaureate or master's degree in social work from an accredited social work school or program approved by the Council on Social Work Education or a doctorate in social work.

2011, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0794).

