# § 54.1-530 Certificate of registration; issuance or denials; renewal.

A. Except as otherwise provided in subsection B, the Director shall issue a certificate of registration to an applicant for registration who complies with subsection A of § [54.1-529](/vacode/54.1-529/).

B. The Director may refuse to issue a certificate of registration to an applicant for registration under subsection A of § [54.1-529](/vacode/54.1-529/) if the Director determines that the applicant has engaged in conduct that significantly adversely reflects on the applicant's fitness to act as an athlete agent. In making the determination, the Director may consider whether the applicant has (i) pleaded guilty or no contest to, has been convicted of, or has charges pending for a crime that would involve moral turpitude or be a felony if committed in the Commonwealth; (ii) made a materially false, misleading, deceptive, or fraudulent representation in the application or as an athlete agent; (iii) engaged in conduct that would disqualify the applicant from serving in a fiduciary capacity; (iv) engaged in conduct prohibited by § [54.1-538](/vacode/54.1-538/); (v) had a registration as an athlete agent suspended, revoked, or denied in any state; (vi) been refused renewal of registration as an athlete agent in any state; (vii) engaged in conduct resulting in imposition of a sanction, suspension, or declaration of ineligibility to participate in an interscholastic or intercollegiate athletic event of a student-athlete or a sanction on an educational institution; or (viii) engaged in conduct that adversely reflects on the applicant's credibility, honesty, or integrity.

C. In making a determination under subsection B, the Director shall consider (i) how recently the conduct occurred, (ii) the nature of the conduct and the context in which it occurred, and (iii) other relevant conduct of the applicant.

D. An athlete agent registered under subsection A may apply to renew the registration by submitting an application for renewal in a form prescribed by the Director. The applicant shall sign the application for renewal under penalty of perjury and include current information on all matters required in an original application for registration.

E. An athlete agent registered under subsection C of § [54.1-529](/vacode/54.1-529/) may renew the registration by proceeding under subsection D or, if the registration in the other state has been renewed, by submitting to the Director copies of the application for renewal in the other state and the renewed registration from the other state. The Director shall renew the registration if the Director determines (i) the registration requirements of the other state are substantially similar to or more restrictive than the requirements in this chapter and (ii) the renewed registration has not been suspended or revoked and no action involving the individual's conduct as an athlete agent is pending against the individual or the individual's registration in any state.

F. A certificate of registration or renewal of registration under this chapter is valid for one or two years, as indicated in the applicant's application.

2020, c. [481](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0481), § 54.1-523.

