# ยง 54.1-3475 Board of Physical Therapy; appointment; qualifications; officers; nominations.

A. The Board of Physical Therapy shall regulate the practice of physical therapy and carry out the provisions of this chapter regarding the qualifications, examination, licensure and regulation of physical therapists and physical therapist assistants and shall have the general powers and duties of a health regulatory board pursuant to ยง [54.1-2400](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2400/).

B. The Board shall be appointed by the Governor and shall be composed of seven members, five of whom shall be physical therapists who have been in active practice for at least seven years prior to appointment with at least three of such years in Virginia; one shall be a licensed physical therapist assistant; and one shall be a citizen member. Members shall be appointed for terms of four years and shall serve until their successors are appointed. The initial appointments shall provide for staggered terms with two members being appointed for a one-year term, two members being appointed for a two-year term, two members being appointed for a three-year term, and one member being appointed for a four-year term. Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term. No person shall be eligible to serve on the Board for more than two successive full terms.

C. The Board shall annually elect a president and a vice-president.

D. Nominations for the professional members of the Board may be chosen by the Governor from a list of at least three names for each vacancy submitted by the Virginia Physical Therapy Association, Inc. The Governor may notify the Association of any professional vacancy other than by expiration of a term and nominations may be submitted by the Association. The Governor shall not be bound to make any appointments from among such nominees.

2000, c. [688](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0688).

