# ยง 54.1-3606.1 Continuing education.

A. The Board shall promulgate regulations governing continuing education requirements for psychologists licensed by the Board. Such regulations shall require the completion of the equivalent of 14 hours annually in Board-approved continuing education courses for any license renewal or reinstatement after the effective date.

B. The Board shall include in its regulations governing continuing education requirements for licensees a provision allowing a licensee who completes continuing education hours in excess of the hours required by subsection A to carry up to seven hours of continuing education credit forward to meet the requirements of subsection A for the next annual renewal cycle.

C. The Board shall approve criteria for continuing education courses that are directly related to the respective license and scope of practice of school psychology, applied psychology and clinical psychology. Approved continuing education courses for clinical psychologists shall emphasize, but not be limited to, the diagnosis, treatment and care of patients with moderate and severe mental disorders. Any licensed hospital, accredited institution of higher education, or national, state or local health, medical, psychological or mental health association or organization may submit applications to the Board for approval as a provider of continuing education courses satisfying the requirements of the Board's regulations. Approved course providers may be required to register continuing education courses with the Board pursuant to Board regulations. Only courses meeting criteria approved by the Board and offered by a Board-approved provider of continuing education courses may be designated by the Board as qualifying for continuing education course credit.

D. All course providers shall furnish written certification to licensed psychologists attending and completing respective courses, indicating the satisfactory completion of an approved continuing education course. Each course provider shall retain records of all persons attending and those persons satisfactorily completing such continuing education courses for a period of four years following each course. Applicants for renewal or reinstatement of licenses issued pursuant to this article shall retain for a period of four years the written certification issued by any course provider. The Board may require course providers or licensees to submit copies of such records or certification, as it deems necessary to ensure compliance with continuing education requirements.

E. The Board shall have the authority to grant exemptions or waivers or to reduce the number of continuing education hours required in cases of certified illness or undue hardship.

2000, c. [83](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0083); 2015, c. [359](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0359).

