# § 54.1-2911 Board; membership; terms of office; change of residence; executive director; etc.

The Board of Medicine shall consist of one medical physician from each congressional district, one osteopathic physician, one podiatrist, one chiropractor, and four citizen members. No two citizen members shall reside in the same congressional district. Citizen members shall have all voting and participation rights of other members. The term of office of the members of the Board shall be four years. If any medical physician member of the Board ceases to reside in the district from which he was appointed, except by reason of redistricting, his office shall be deemed vacant.

The officers of the Board shall be a president, vice-president and a secretary, who shall also act as treasurer, who shall be members of and selected by the Board.

Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places as prescribed by the Board. Special meetings may be held upon the call of the president and any 11 members. Twelve members of the Board shall constitute a quorum.

The Board may establish an executive committee composed of the president, vice-president, the secretary and five other members of the Board appointed by the president. The executive committee shall include at least two citizen members. In the absence of the Board, the executive committee shall have full powers to take any action and conduct any business authorized by this chapter. Five members of the executive committee shall constitute a quorum. Any actions or business conducted by the executive committee shall be acted upon by the full Board as soon as practicable.

There shall be an executive director for the Board of Medicine who shall be licensed or eligible for licensure in the Commonwealth as a physician.

Code 1950, §§ 54-282, 54-283, 54-287, 54-289, 54-290; 1950, p. 111; 1966, cc. 166, 657; 1970, c. 69; 1973, c. 401; 1973, c. 529, § 54-290.1; 1975, c. 508; 1986, c. 434, § 54-290.2; 1986, c. 464; 1988, cc. 42, 765; 2001, cc. [186](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0186), [198](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0198); 2003, cc. [753](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0753), [762](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0762).

