# ยง 54.1-2928.1 Restricted volunteer license.

A. The Board may issue a restricted volunteer license to a practitioner of the healing arts who:

1. Held an unrestricted license issued by the Virginia Board of Medicine or by a board in another state as a licensee in good standing at the time the license expired or became inactive;

2. Is practicing within the limits of his license in accordance with provisions of ยง [54.1-106](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-106/); and

3. Attests to knowledge of the laws and regulations governing his branch of the healing arts in Virginia.

B. A person holding a restricted volunteer license under this section shall not be required to complete continuing education for the first renewal of such a license. Subsequent renewals will require continuing education as specified by Board regulation.

C. If a practitioner with a restricted volunteer license issued under this section has not held an active, unrestricted license and been engaged in active practice within the past four years, he shall only practice his profession if a doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine with an active, unrestricted Virginia license reviews the quality of care rendered by the practitioner with the restricted volunteer license at least every 90 days.

D. Such license may be renewed every two years in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Board.

E. A practitioner holding a restricted volunteer license issued pursuant to this section is subject to the provisions of this chapter, the regulations promulgated under this chapter, and the disciplinary regulations which apply to all such practitioners in Virginia.

F. The application fee and the biennial renewal fee for restricted volunteer license under this section shall be no more than one-half the renewal fee for an inactive license in the same branch of the healing arts.

2006, c. [881](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0881).

