# ยง 54.1-4201.1 Notification by sponsor of firearms show to State Police and local law-enforcement authorities required; records; penalty.

A. No promoter of a firearms show shall hold such show without giving notice at least 30 days prior to the show to the State Police and the sheriff or chief of police of the locality in which the firearms show will be held. The notice shall be given on a form provided by the State Police. A separate notice shall be required for each firearms show.

"Promoter" means every person, firm, corporation, club, association, or organization holding a firearms show in the Commonwealth.

The promoter shall maintain for the duration of the show a list of all vendors or exhibitors in the show for immediate inspection by any law-enforcement authorities, and within five days after the conclusion of the show, by mail, by hand, by email, or by fax, transmit a copy of the complete vendor or exhibitor list to the law-enforcement authorities to which the 30-day prior notice was required. The vendor or exhibitor list shall contain the full name and residence address and the business name and address, if any, of the vendors or exhibitors.

B. A willful violation of this section shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor.

C. The provisions of this section shall not apply to firearms shows held in any town with a population of not less than 1,995 and not more than 2,010, according to the 1990 United States census.

1993, c. 477; 2005, c. [193](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0193).

