# § 54.1-2957.10 Advisory Board on Midwifery established; membership; duties; terms.

A. The Advisory Board on Midwifery is established as an advisory board in the executive branch of state government. The purpose of the Advisory Board is to assist the Board of Medicine in formulating regulations pertaining to the practice of midwifery. The Advisory Board shall also assist in such other matters relating to the practice of midwifery as the Board may require.

B. The Advisory Board shall consist of five nonlegislative citizen members to be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly, including three Certified Professional Midwives, one doctor of medicine or osteopathy or certified nurse midwife who is licensed to practice in the Commonwealth and who has experience in out-of-hospital birth settings, and one citizen who has used out-of-hospital midwifery services. Nonlegislative citizen members of the Advisory Board shall be citizens of the Commonwealth of Virginia.

The initial appointments shall provide for staggered terms with two members being appointed for two-year terms, two members being appointed for three-year terms, and one member being appointed for a four-year term. Thereafter, nonlegislative citizen members shall be appointed for a term of four years. Appointments to fill vacancies, other than by expiration of a term, shall be for the unexpired terms. All members may be reappointed. However, no nonlegislative citizen member shall serve more than two consecutive four-year terms. The remainder of any term to which a member is appointed to fill a vacancy shall not constitute a term in determining the member's eligibility for reappointment. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments.

C. The Advisory Board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum. The meetings of the Advisory Board shall be held at the call of the chairman or whenever the majority of the members so request.

D. Members shall receive such compensation for the discharge of their duties as provided in § [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/). All members shall be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties as provided in §§ [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/) and [2.2-2825](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2825/). Funding for the costs of compensation and expenses of the members shall be provided by the Board of Medicine.

E. The Department of Health Professions shall provide staff support to the Advisory Board. All agencies of the Commonwealth shall provide assistance to the Advisory Board, upon request.

2005, cc. [719](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0719), [917](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0917); 2008, c. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0036).

