# § 54.1-2300 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Board" means the Board for Waterworks and Wastewater Works Operators and Onsite Sewage System Professionals.

"Onsite sewage system" means a conventional onsite sewage system or alternative onsite sewage system as defined in § [32.1-163](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/32.1-163/).

"Operator" means any individual employed or appointed by any owner, and who is designated by such owner to be the person in responsible charge, such as a supervisor, a shift operator, or a substitute in charge, and whose duties include testing or evaluation to control waterworks or wastewater works operations or to operate and maintain onsite sewage systems. Not included in this definition are superintendents or directors of public works, city engineers, or other municipal or industrial officials whose duties do not include the actual operation or direct supervision of waterworks or wastewater works.

"Owner" means the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any political subdivision thereof, any public or private institution, corporation, association, firm or company organized or existing under the laws of this Commonwealth or of any other state or nation, or any person or group of persons acting individually or as a group, who own, manage, or maintain waterworks or wastewater works.

"Person" means any individual, group of individuals, a corporation, a partnership, a business trust, an association or other similar legal entity engaged in operating waterworks or wastewater works.

"Wastewater works" means each system of (i) sewerage systems or sewage treatment works, serving more than 400 persons, as set forth in § [62.1-44.18](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-44.18/); (ii) sewerage systems or sewage treatment works serving fewer than 400 persons, as set forth in § [62.1-44.18](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-44.18/), if so certified by the State Water Control Board; and (iii) facilities for discharge to state waters of industrial wastes or other wastes, if certified by the State Water Control Board.

"Waterworks" means each system of structures and appliances used in connection with the collection, storage, purification, and treatment of water for drinking or domestic use and the distribution thereof to the public, except distribution piping. Systems serving fewer than 400 persons shall not be considered to be a waterworks unless certified by the Board to be such.

1970, c. 768, § 54-573.2; 1972, c. 682; 1988, c. 765; 2007, cc. [892](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0892), [924](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0924).

