# ยง 54.1-3309 Enforcement.

A. The Board or its agents are authorized upon presenting appropriate credentials and a written notice as to the purpose of the inspection to the owner, operator or agent in charge to enter at reasonable times any factory, warehouse or establishment in which drugs, devices or cosmetics are manufactured, processed, packed or held for introduction into commerce or to enter any vehicle being used to transport or hold such drugs, devices or cosmetics.

The Board or its agents are authorized to inspect such factory, warehouse, establishment or vehicle and all pertinent equipment, materials, containers and labeling.

In the case of any factory, warehouse, establishment or consulting laboratory in which prescription drugs are manufactured, processed, packed or held, the inspection shall extend to all things, including records, files, papers, processes, controls and facilities, bearing on compliance with Chapter 34 (ยง [54.1-3400](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3400/) et seq.) of this title.

No inspection authorized for prescription drugs shall extend to financial data, sales data other than shipment data, pricing data, personnel data, other than data as to qualifications of technical and professional personnel performing functions subject to this chapter, and research data.

Each inspection shall be commenced and completed with reasonable promptness. The Board or its agents shall have access to copy all records of carriers in commerce showing the movement in commerce of any drug, device, or cosmetic and the quantity, shipper and consignee. The evidence obtained under this section shall not be used in a criminal prosecution of the person from whom obtained; and carriers shall not be subject to the provisions of Chapter 34 by reason of their receipt, carriage, holding, or delivery of food, drugs, devices, or cosmetics in the usual course of business.

B. If the authorized agent inspecting a factory, warehouse or other establishment has obtained any sample in the course of the inspection, upon completion of the inspection and prior to leaving the premises, he shall give to the owner, operator, or agent in charge a receipt describing the samples.

1970, c. 650, ยง 54-524.99; 1988, c. 765.

