# ยง 54.1-101 Copies of examinations filed by regulatory boards.

A copy of examinations given by regulatory and advisory boards within the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation and the Department of Health Professions authorized to conduct examinations of applicants for admission to practice or pursue any profession, vocation, trade, calling, or art shall be kept on file at the office of the secretary of each board. A copy of the examination shall be placed on file within ten days after it is administered, and shall be preserved for at least one year as a public record accessible to any person desiring to examine it during usual business hours. After the expiration of one year from the time the examination is filed, the secretary of the respective board may withdraw and destroy the examination. However, this section shall not be construed or interpreted in a manner to require the filing or release of examinations or other information which would result in compromising the validity or security of future examinations conducted by regulatory or advisory boards of the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation or the Department of Health Professions. In the event any provision of this section results in a conflict with the provisions of ยง [54.1-108](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-108/), the provisions of ยง [54.1-108](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-108/) shall prevail.

Code 1950, ยง 54-1; 1952, c. 227; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 94; 1960, c. 10; 1962, c. 13; 1970, c. 623; 1973, c. 284; 1985, c. 448; 1988, c. 765; 1993, c. 499.

