# § 54.1-2131 Licensees engaged by sellers.

A. A licensee engaged by a seller shall:

1. Perform in accordance with the terms of the brokerage agreement;

2. Promote the interests of the seller by:

a. Conducting marketing activities on behalf of the seller in accordance with the brokerage agreement. In so doing, the licensee shall seek a sale at the price and terms agreed upon in the brokerage agreement or at a price and terms acceptable to the seller; however, the licensee shall not be obligated to seek additional offers to purchase the property while the property is subject to a contract of sale, unless agreed to as part of the brokerage agreement or as the contract of sale so provides;

b. Assisting in the drafting and negotiating of offers and counteroffers, amendments, and addenda to the real estate contract pursuant to § [54.1-2101.1](/vacode/54.1-2101.1/) and in establishing strategies for accomplishing the seller's objectives;

c. Receiving and presenting in a timely manner written offers and counteroffers to and from the seller and purchasers, even when the property is already subject to a contract of sale; and

d. Providing reasonable assistance to the seller to satisfy the seller's contract obligations and to facilitate settlement of the purchase contract;

3. Maintain confidentiality of all personal and financial information received from the client during the brokerage relationship and any other information that the client requests during the brokerage relationship be maintained confidential, unless otherwise provided by law or the seller consents in writing to the release of such information;

4. Exercise ordinary care;

5. Account in a timely manner for all money and property received by the licensee in which the seller has or may have an interest;

6. Disclose to the seller material facts related to the property or concerning the transaction of which the licensee has actual knowledge; and

7. Comply with all requirements of this article, all fair housing statutes and regulations for residential real estate transactions as applicable, and all other applicable statutes and regulations which are not in conflict with this article.

B. Licensees shall treat all prospective buyers honestly and shall not knowingly give them false information. A licensee engaged by a seller shall disclose to prospective buyers all material adverse facts pertaining to the physical condition of the property which are actually known by the licensee. If a licensee has actual knowledge of the existence of defective drywall in a residential property, the licensee shall disclose the same to the prospective buyer. For purposes of this section, "defective drywall" means all defective drywall as defined in § [36-156.1](/vacode/36-156.1/). As used in this section, the term "physical condition of the property" shall refer to the physical condition of the land and any improvements thereon, and shall not refer to (i) matters outside the boundaries of the land or relating to adjacent or other properties in proximity thereto, (ii) matters relating to governmental land use regulations, or (iii) matters relating to highways or public streets. Such disclosure shall be made in writing. No cause of action shall arise against any licensee for revealing information as required by this article or applicable law. Nothing in this article shall limit in any way the provisions of the Virginia Residential Property Disclosure Act (§ [55.1-700](/vacode/55.1-700/) et seq.) applicable to residential real estate transactions.

C. A licensee engaged by a seller in a real estate transaction may, unless prohibited by law or the brokerage agreement, provide assistance to a buyer or potential buyer by performing ministerial acts. Performing such ministerial acts that are not inconsistent with subsection A shall not be construed to violate the licensee's brokerage agreement with the seller unless expressly prohibited by the terms of the brokerage agreement, nor shall performing such ministerial acts be construed to form a brokerage relationship with such buyer or potential buyer.

D. A licensee engaged by a seller does not breach any duty or obligation owed to the seller by showing alternative properties to prospective buyers, whether as clients or customers, or by representing other sellers who have other properties for sale.

E. Licensees in residential real estate transactions shall disclose brokerage relationships pursuant to the provisions of this article.

F. Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a licensee to disclose whether settlement services under Chapter 10 (§ [55.1-1000](/vacode/55.1-1000/) et seq.) of Title 55.1 will be provided by an attorney or a nonattorney settlement agent.

1995, cc. [741](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0741), [813](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0813); 2006, c. [627](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0627); 2008, c. [741](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0741); 2011, cc. [34](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0034), [46](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0046), [461](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0461); 2012, c. [750](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0750); 2016, c. [334](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0334).

