# ยง 54.1-2116 Limitations upon recovery from fund; certain actions not a bar to recovery.

A. The aggregate of claims by claimants against the fund based upon unpaid judgments arising out of the improper or dishonest conduct of one regulant in connection with a single transaction involving the sale, lease, or management of real property, is limited to $50,000. If a claim has been made against the fund, and the Board has reason to believe that there may be additional claims against the fund arising out of the same transaction, the Board may withhold any payment(s) from the fund for a period of not more than one year. After such one-year period, if the aggregate of claims arising out of the same transaction exceeds $50,000, such $50,000 shall be prorated by the Board among the claimants and paid from the fund in proportion to the amounts of their judgments against the regulant remaining unpaid.

B. The maximum claim of one claimant against the fund based upon an unpaid judgment arising out of the improper or dishonest conduct of one regulant in connection with a single transaction involving the sale, lease, or management of real property, shall be limited to $20,000, regardless of the number of claimants and regardless of the amount of the unpaid judgment of the claimant.

C. The aggregate of claims against the fund based upon unpaid judgments arising out of the improper or dishonest conduct of one regulant in connection with more than a single transaction involving the sale, lease, or management of real property is limited to $100,000 during any biennial license period, the biennial periods expiring on June 30 of each even-numbered year. If a claim has been made against the fund, and the Board has reason to believe that there may be additional claims against the fund from other transactions involving the same regulant, the Board may withhold any payment(s) from the fund involving such regulant for a period of not more than one year. After the one-year period, if the aggregate of claims against the regulant exceeds $100,000, such $100,000 shall be prorated by the Board among the claimants and paid from the fund in proportion to the amounts of their judgments against the regulant remaining unpaid.

D. Excluded from the amount of any unpaid judgment upon which a claim against the fund is based shall be any sums included in the judgment which represent interest, or punitive damages. The claim against the fund may include court costs and attorney fees.

E. If, at any time, the amount of the fund is insufficient to satisfy any claims, claim, or portion thereof filed with the Board and authorized by the act, the Board shall, when the amount of the fund is sufficient to satisfy some or all of such claims, claim, or portion thereof, pay the claimants in the order that such claims were filed with the Board.

F. Failure of a claimant to comply with the provisions of subdivisions B 1 and 2 of ยง [54.1-2114](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2114/) and the provisions of ยง [54.1-2117](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2117/) shall not be a bar to recovery under this act if the claimant is otherwise entitled to such recovery.

1977, c. 69, ยง 54-765.5; 1987, c. 555; 1988, c. 765; 2015, cc. [409](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0409), [710](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0710).

