# ยง 54.1-3011.01 Restricted volunteer license for registered or practical nurses.

A. The Board may issue a restricted volunteer license to a registered or practical nurse who, within the past five years, held an unrestricted active license as a registered or practical nurse issued by the Board or another state, which was in good standing at the time the license expired or became inactive. Nurses holding a restricted volunteer license issued pursuant to this section shall only practice in public health or community free clinics that provide services to underserved populations.

B. An applicant for a restricted volunteer license shall submit an application on a form provided by the Board and attest that he will not receive remuneration directly or indirectly for providing nursing services.

C. A person holding a restricted volunteer license pursuant to this section shall not be required to complete continuing competency requirements for the first renewal of such license. For subsequent renewals, a nurse holding a restricted volunteer license shall be required to complete the continuing competency requirements required for renewal of an active license.

D. A restricted volunteer license issued pursuant to this section may be renewed biennially in accordance with the renewal schedule established in regulations promulgated by the Board.

E. The application and biennial renewal fee for restricted volunteer licenses pursuant to this section shall be one-half of the fee for an active license.

F. A nurse holding a restricted volunteer license issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter and all regulations applicable to nurses practicing in the Commonwealth.

G. A restricted volunteer license shall only be valid in the Commonwealth and shall not confer any multistate licensure privilege.

2015, c. [522](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0522).

