# ยง 54.1-1142.1 Certifications in event of declared emergency.

A. Whenever the Governor declares a state of emergency in accordance with ยง [44-146.17](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/44-146.17/) or in the event of a work stoppage by elevator mechanics and the Board determines that the number of elevator mechanics is insufficient to meet the demands of the emergency or work stoppage, the Board shall issue an emergency certificate to practice as an elevator mechanic under the following conditions:

1. A contractor licensed under the provisions of this chapter (a) attests to the Board, in a form prescribed by the Board, that an applicant has an acceptable combination of documented experience and education to perform work as an elevator mechanic without direct and immediate supervision of an elevator mechanic and (b) provides such proof thereof as required by the Board; and

2. The applicant attested to the Board by the licensed contractor applies to the Board for emergency certification as an elevator mechanic.

As used in this subsection, "direct and immediate supervision" means proper supervision but does not include line of sight supervision.

B. Each such certification shall be valid for a period of 45 days from the date of issuance and for such geographic areas or such elevators, escalators, or related conveyances as the Board may designate. Such certification shall entitle the certificate holder to engage in work as an elevator mechanic. The Board shall renew such certification as often as necessary to ensure that there is a sufficient number of elevator mechanics to meet the demands of the emergency. No fee shall be charged for application for such certification or any renewal thereof.

C. The Board may delegate to the Director of the Department the authority to issue such emergency certifications. The Director shall inform the Board of the issuance of any certifications.

2007, c. [424](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0424); 2009, cc. [184](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0184), [586](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0586).

