# § 54.1-2354.5 Common Interest Community Management Recovery Fund.

A. There is hereby created the Common Interest Community Management Recovery Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund," to be used in the discretion of the Board to protect the interests of associations.

B. Each common interest community manager, at the time of initial application for licensure, and each association filing its first annual report after the effective date shall be assessed $25, which shall be specifically assigned to the Fund. Initial payments may be incorporated in any application fee payment or annual filing fee and transferred to the Fund by the Director within 30 days.

All assessments, except initial assessments, for the Fund shall be deposited within three business days after their receipt by the Director, in one or more federally insured banks, savings and loan associations, or savings banks located in the Commonwealth. Funds deposited in banks, savings institutions, or savings banks in excess of insurance afforded by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or other federal insurance agency shall be secured under the Virginia Security for Public Deposits Act (§ [2.2-4400](/vacode/2.2-4400/) et seq.). The deposit of these funds in federally insured banks, savings and loan associations, or savings banks located in the Commonwealth shall not be considered investment of such funds for purposes of this section. Funds maintained by the Director may be invested in securities that are legal investments for fiduciaries under the provisions of § [64.2-1502](/vacode/64.2-1502/).

Interest earned on the deposits constituting the Fund shall be used for administering the Fund. The remainder of this interest, at the discretion of the Board, may be transferred to the Common Interest Community Management Information Fund, established pursuant to § [54.1-2354.2](/vacode/54.1-2354.2/), or accrue to the Fund.

C. On and after July 1, 2011, the minimum balance of the Fund shall be $150,000. Whenever the Director determines that the principal balance of the Fund is or will be less than such minimum principal balance, the Director shall immediately inform the Board. At the same time, the Director may recommend that the Board transfer a fixed amount from the Common Interest Community Management Information Fund to the Fund to bring the principal balance of the Fund to the amount required by this subsection. Such transfer shall be considered by the Board within 30 days of the notification of the Director.

D. If any such transfer of funds is insufficient to bring the principal balance of the Fund to the minimum amount required by this section, or if a transfer to the Fund has not occurred, the Board shall assess each association and each common interest community manager, within 30 days of notification by the Director, a sum sufficient to bring the principal balance of the Fund to the required minimum amount. The amount of such assessment shall be allocated among the associations and common interest community managers in proportion to each payor's most recently paid annual assessment, or if an association or common interest community manager has not paid an annual assessment previously, in proportion to the average annual assessment most recently paid by associations or common interest community managers, respectively. The Board may order an assessment at any time in addition to any required assessment. Assessments made pursuant to this subsection may be issued by the Board (i) after a determination made by it or (ii) at the time of license renewal.

Notice to common interest community managers and the governing boards of associations of these assessments shall be by first-class mail, and payment of such assessments shall be made by first-class mail addressed to the Director within 45 days after the mailing of such notice.

E. If any common interest community manager fails to remit the required payment within 45 days of the mailing, the Director shall notify the common interest community manager by first-class mail at the latest address of record filed with the Board. If no payment has been received by the Director within 30 days after mailing the second notice, the license shall be automatically suspended. The license shall be restored only upon the actual receipt by the Director of the delinquent assessment.

F. If any association fails to remit the required payment within 45 days of the mailing, the Director shall notify the association by first-class mail at the latest address of record filed with the Board. If no payment has been received by the Director within 30 days after mailing the second notice, it shall be deemed a knowing and willful violation of this section by the governing board of the association.

G. At the close of each fiscal year, whenever the balance of the Fund exceeds $5 million, the amount in excess of $5 million shall be transferred to the Virginia Housing Trust Fund established pursuant to Chapter 9 (§ [36-141](/vacode/36-141/) et seq.) of Title 36. Except for payments of costs as set forth in this article and transfers pursuant to this subsection, there shall be no transfers out of the Fund, including transfers to the general fund, regardless of the balance of the Fund.

H. A claimant may seek recovery from the Fund subject to the following conditions:

1. A claimant may file a verified claim in writing to the Director for a recovery from the Fund.

2. Upon proper application to the Director, in those cases in which there are not sufficient funds to pay an award of reasonable fees, costs, and expenses to the receiver or to restore all funds that were or ought to have been held in a fiduciary capacity by the subject common interest community manager, the Director shall report to the Board the amount of any shortfall to the extent that there are not sufficient funds (i) to pay any award of fees, costs, and expenses pursuant to subsection G of § [54.1-2353](/vacode/54.1-2353/) by the court appointing the receiver; or (ii) to restore all funds that were or ought to have been held in a fiduciary capacity by the subject common interest community manager, as certified by the court appointing the receiver.

3. If the Board finds there has been compliance with the required conditions, the Board shall issue a directive ordering payment of the amount of such shortfall to the claimant from the Fund, provided that in no event shall such payment exceed the balance in the Fund. When the Fund balance is not sufficient to pay the aggregate amount of such shortfall, the Board shall direct that payment be applied first in satisfaction of any award of reasonable fees, costs, and expenses to the receiver and second to restore the funds that were or ought to have been held in a fiduciary capacity by the subject common interest community manager. If the Board has reason to believe that there may be additional claims against the Fund, the Board may withhold any payment from the Fund for a period of not more than one year. After such one-year period, if the aggregate of claims received exceeds the Fund balance, the Fund balance shall be prorated by the Board among the claimants and paid in the above payment order from the Fund in proportion to the amounts of claims remaining unpaid.

4. The Director shall, subject to the limitations set forth in this subsection, pay to the claimant from the Fund such amount as shall be directed by the Board upon the execution and delivery to the Director by such claimant of an assignment to the Board of the claimant's rights on its behalf and on behalf of the associations receiving distributions from the Fund against the common interest community manager to the extent that such rights were satisfied from the Fund.

5. The claimant shall be notified in writing of the findings of the Board. The Board's findings shall be considered a case decision as defined in § [2.2-4001](/vacode/2.2-4001/), and judicial review of these findings shall be in accordance with § [2.2-4025](/vacode/2.2-4025/) of the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.).

6. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Board shall have the right to appeal a decision of any court that is contrary to any distribution recommended or authorized by it.

7. Upon payment by the Director to a claimant from the Fund as provided in this subsection, the Board shall immediately revoke the license of the common interest community manager whose actions resulted in payment from the Fund. The common interest community manager whose license was so revoked shall not be eligible to apply for a license as a common interest community manager until he has repaid in full the amount paid from the Fund on his account, plus interest at the judgment rate of interest from the date of payment from the Fund.

8. Nothing contained in this subsection shall limit the authority of the Board to take disciplinary action against any common interest community manager for any violation of statute or regulation, nor shall the repayment in full by a common interest community manager of the amount paid from the Fund on such common interest community manager's account nullify or modify the effect of any disciplinary proceeding against such common interest community manager for any such violation.

2008, cc. [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871), § 55-530.1; 2009, c. [557](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0557); 2013, c. [754](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0754); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

