# ยง 54.1-1100 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Board" means the Board for Contractors.

"Class A contractors" perform or manage construction, removal, repair, or improvements when (i) the total value referred to in a single contract or project is $120,000 or more, or (ii) the total value of all such construction, removal, repair, or improvements undertaken by such person within any 12-month period is $750,000 or more.

"Class B contractors" perform or manage construction, removal, repair, or improvements when (i) the total value referred to in a single contract or project is $10,000 or more, but less than $120,000, or (ii) the total value of all such construction, removal, repair or improvements undertaken by such person within any 12-month period is $150,000 or more, but less than $750,000.

"Class C contractors" perform or manage construction, removal, repair, or improvements when (i) the total value referred to in a single contract or project is over $1,000 but less than $10,000, or (ii) the total value of all such construction, removal, repair, or improvements undertaken by such person within any 12-month period is less than $150,000. The Board shall require a master tradesmen license as a condition of licensure for electrical, plumbing and heating, ventilation and air conditioning contractors.

"Contractor" means any person, that for a fixed price, commission, fee, or percentage undertakes to bid upon, or accepts, or offers to accept, orders or contracts for performing, managing, or superintending in whole or in part, the construction, removal, repair or improvement of any building or structure permanently annexed to real property owned, controlled, or leased by him or another person or any other improvements to such real property. For purposes of this chapter, "improvement" shall include (i) remediation, cleanup, or containment of premises to remove contaminants or (ii) site work necessary to make certain real property usable for human occupancy according to the guidelines established pursuant to ยง [32.1-11.7](/vacode/32.1-11.7/).

"Department" means the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation.

"Designated employee" means the contractor's full-time employee, or a member of the contractor's responsible management, who is at least 18 years of age and who has successfully completed the oral or written examination required by the Board on behalf of the contractor.

"Director" means the Director of the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation.

"Fire sprinkler contractor" means a contractor that provides for the installation, repair, alteration, addition, testing, maintenance, inspection, improvement, or removal of sprinkler systems using water as a means of fire suppression when annexed to real property. "Fire sprinkler contracting" does not include the installation, repair, or maintenance of other types of fire suppression systems.

"Owner-developer" means any person who, for a third party purchaser, orders or supervises the construction, removal, repair, or improvement of any building or structure permanently annexed to real property owned, controlled, or leased by the owner-developer, or any other improvement to such property and who contracts with a person licensed in accordance with this chapter for the work undertaken.

"Person" means any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, or other legal entity.

"Value" means fair market value. When improvements are performed or supervised by a contractor, the contract price shall be prima facie evidence of value.

Code 1950, ยง 54-113; 1954, c. 428; 1970, c. 319; 1972, c. 771; 1977, c. 640; 1978, c. 521; 1980, c. 634; 1984, c. 434; 1987, c. 358; 1988, c. 765; 1990, c. 911; 1992, cc. 330, 713, 715, 812; 1993, cc. 499, 815; 1994, cc. [601](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0601), [754](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0754); 1995, c. [581](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0581); 1997, c. [885](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0885); 1998, c. [754](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0754); 2005, c. [348](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0348); 2010, c. [62](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0062); 2016, c. [527](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0527); 2019, c. [726](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0726).

