# ยง 54.1-2327 Itemized statement and general price list of burial fees to be furnished; solicitations prohibited.

A. Every cemetery company licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall furnish a written general price list and a written itemized statement of charges in connection with burial services provided by the cemetery company.

Individuals inquiring in person about burial arrangements or the prices of property or services shall be given the general price list. Upon beginning discussion of burial arrangements or the selection of any property or services, the general price list shall be offered by the cemetery company.

The itemized statement shall include, but not be limited to, the following charges: burial vaults or other burial receptacles, facilities used, and other professional services used, which shall be set forth in a clear and conspicuous manner.

The general price list and itemized statement of burial fees shall comply with forms prescribed by Board regulation, which regulations shall promote the purposes of this section.

B. No cemetery company licensed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall make any solicitation at-need or any preneed solicitation using in-person communication by the cemetery company, his agents, assistants or employees, which is false, misleading, or contrary to the stated purpose. However, general advertising and preneed solicitation shall be permitted.

1998, cc. [708](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0708), [721](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0721).

