# ยง 54.1-2725 Faculty licenses to teach dental hygiene; renewals.

A. Upon payment of the prescribed fee, the Board shall grant, without examination, a license to teach dental hygiene to any applicant who (i) is a graduate of a dental hygiene school or college or the dental hygiene department of an institution of higher education accredited by the Commission of Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association; (ii) has a B.S., B.A., A.B., or M.S. degree and is otherwise qualified; (iii) is not licensed to practice dental hygiene; and (iv) has a license to practice dental hygiene in at least one other United States jurisdiction.

B. The dean or program director of the accredited dental hygiene program shall provide to the Board verification that the applicant is being hired by the program and shall include an assessment of the applicant's clinical competency and clinical experience that qualifies the applicant for a faculty license.

C. The holder of a license issued pursuant to this section shall be entitled to perform all activities that a person licensed to practice dental hygiene would be entitled to perform that are part of his faculty duties, including all patient care activities associated with teaching, research, and the delivery of patient care that take place only within educational facilities owned or operated by or affiliated with the dental school or program. A license issued pursuant to this section does not entitle the holder to practice dental hygiene in nonaffiliated clinics or other private practice settings.

D. Any license issued under this section shall expire on June 30 of the second year after its issuance or shall terminate when the licensee leaves employment at the accredited dental program. Such license may be renewed annually thereafter as long as the accredited program certifies to the licensee's continuing employment.

1975, c. 479, ยง 54-175.1; 1976, c. 327; 1988, c. 765; 2012, cc. [20](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0020), [116](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0116).

