# ยง 54.1-3516 Art therapist and art therapy associate; licensure.

A. No person shall engage in the practice of art therapy or hold himself out or otherwise represent himself as an art therapist or art therapy associate unless he is licensed by the Board. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a person licensed, certified, or registered by a health regulatory board from using the modalities of art media if such modalities are within his scope of practice.

B. The Board shall adopt regulations governing the practice of art therapy, upon consultation with the Advisory Board on Art Therapy established in ยง [54.1-3517](/vacode/54.1-3517/). Such regulations shall (i) set forth the requirements for licensure as an art therapist or art therapy associate, (ii) provide for appropriate application and renewal fees, and (iii) include requirements for licensure renewal and continuing education.

C. In the adoption of regulations for licensure, the Board shall consider requirements for registration as a Registered Art Therapist (ATR) and certification as a Board Certified Art Therapist (ATR-BC) with the Art Therapy Credentials Board and successful completion of the Registered Art Therapist Board Certified Art Therapist examination.

D. A license issued for an art therapy associate shall be valid for a period of five years. At the end of the five-year period, an art therapy associate who has not met the requirements for licensure as an art therapist may submit an application for extension of licensure as an art therapy associate to the Board. Such application shall include (i) a plan for completing the requirements to obtain licensure as an art therapist, (ii) documentation of compliance with the continuing education requirements, (iii) documentation of compliance with requirements related to supervision, and (iv) a letter of recommendation from the clinical supervisor of record. An extension of a license as an art therapy associate pursuant to this subsection shall be valid for a period of two years and shall not be renewable.

2020, c. [301](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0301).

