# ยง 54.1-2726 Temporary permits for certain hygienists.

A. The Board may issue a temporary permit to a graduate of an accredited dental hygiene program who is otherwise qualified, has not held a license to practice dental hygiene in Virginia, and has not failed an examination for a license to practice dental hygiene in the Commonwealth. Such temporary permits shall be issued only to those eligible graduates who serve in the Department of Health or the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services in a dental clinic operated by the Commonwealth or in a Virginia charitable corporation granted tax-exempt status under ยง 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and operated as a clinic for the indigent and uninsured that is organized for the delivery of primary health care services: (i) as a federally qualified health center designated by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) or (ii) at a reduced or sliding fee scale or without charge.

B. Applicants for temporary permits shall be certified to the executive director of the Board by the Commissioner of Health or the Commissioner of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services or the chief executive officer of a Virginia charitable corporation pursuant to subsection A. The holder of such permit shall not be entitled to receive any fee or compensation other than salary. Such permits shall be valid for no more than two years and shall expire on the June 30 of the second year after their issuance, or shall terminate when the holder ceases to be employed by the certifying agency. Such permits may be reissued annually or may be revoked at any time for cause. Reissuance or revocation of a temporary permit is in the discretion of the Board.

The holder of a temporary permit shall function under the direction of a dentist.

Code 1950, ยง 54-152; 1968, c. 604; 1970, c. 639; 1972, c. 805; 1975, c. 479; 1976, c. 327; 1985, c. 373; 1988, c. 765; 2005, cc. [505](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0505), [587](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0587); 2009, cc. [813](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813), [840](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840).

