# ยง 54.1-3304.1 Authority to license and regulate practitioners; permits.

A. The Board of Pharmacy shall have the authority to license and regulate the dispensing of controlled substances by practitioners of the healing arts. Except as prescribed in this chapter or by Board regulations, it shall be unlawful for any practitioner of the healing arts to dispense controlled substances within the Commonwealth unless licensed by the Board to sell controlled substances.

B. Facilities from which practitioners of the healing arts dispense controlled substances shall obtain a permit from the Board and comply with the regulations for practitioners of the healing arts to sell controlled substances. Facilities in which only one practitioner of the healing arts is licensed by the Board to sell controlled substances shall be exempt from fees associated with obtaining and renewing such permit.

C. The Board of Pharmacy may issue a limited-use license for the purpose of dispensing Schedule VI controlled substances, excluding the combination of misoprostol and methotrexate, and hypodermic syringes and needles for the administration of prescribed controlled substances to a doctor of medicine, osteopathic medicine, or podiatry, a nurse practitioner, or a physician assistant, provided that such limited-use licensee is practicing at a nonprofit facility. Such facility shall obtain a limited-use permit from the Board and comply with regulations for such a permit.

1988, c. 904, ยง 54-524.34:2; 1989, c. 510; 2015, c. [117](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0117); 2020, cc. [609](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0609), [610](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0610).

