# § 54.1-1119 Assessments by Director; assignment to Fund; minimum balance; notice; penalties; costs of administration.

A. Each initial regulant, at the time of application, shall be assessed twenty-five dollars, which shall be specifically assigned to the Fund. Initial payments may be incorporated in any application fee payment and transferred to the Fund by the Director within thirty days.

All assessments, except initial assessments, for the Fund shall be deposited within three work days after their receipt by the Director, in one or more federally insured banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks located in the Commonwealth. Funds deposited in banks, savings institutions or savings banks, to the extent in excess of insurance afforded by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or other federal insurance agency, shall be secured under the Virginia Security for Public Deposits Act (§ [2.2-4400](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4400/) et seq.). The deposit of these funds in federally insured banks, savings and loan associations or savings banks located in the Commonwealth shall not be considered investment of such funds for purposes of this section. Funds maintained by the Director may be invested in securities that are legal investments for fiduciaries under the provisions of § [64.2-1502](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1502/).

B. The minimum balance of the Fund shall be $400,000. Whenever the Director determines that the balance of the Fund is or will be less than this minimum balance, the Director shall immediately inform the Board, which shall assess each regulant at the time of his license renewal a sum sufficient to bring the balance of the Fund to an amount of not less than $400,000, when combined with similar assessments of other regulants. No regulant shall be assessed a total amount of more than fifty dollars during any biennium.

Notice to regulants of these assessments shall be by first-class mail, and payment of such assessments shall be made by first-class mail addressed to the Director within forty-five days after the mailing of the notice to regulants.

C. If any regulant fails to remit the required assessment mailed in accordance with subsection B within forty-five days of such mailing, the Director shall notify such regulant by first-class mail at the latest address of record filed with the Board. If no payment has been received by the Director within thirty days after mailing the second notice, the license of the regulant shall be automatically suspended and shall be restored only upon the actual receipt by the Director of the delinquent assessment.

Interest earned on the deposits constituting the Fund shall be used for administering the Fund. The remainder of this interest may be used for the purposes of providing educational programs about the Uniform Statewide Building Code (§ [36-97](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-97/) et seq.), for providing education on subjects of benefit to licensees or members of the public relating to contracting, or shall accrue to the Fund.

1980, c. 635, § 54-145.3:2; 1984, c. 270; 1987, c. 555; 1988, c. 765; 1990, cc. 3, 437, 911; 1992, c. 810; 1995, c. [771](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0771); 1996, c. [96](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0096); 1997, c. [885](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0885).

