# § 55.1-1229 Access; consent; correction of nonemergency conditions; relocation of tenant; security systems.

A. 1. The tenant shall not unreasonably withhold consent to the landlord to enter into the dwelling unit in order to inspect the premises; make necessary or agreed-upon repairs, decorations, alterations, or improvements; supply necessary or agreed-upon services; or exhibit the dwelling unit to prospective or actual purchasers, mortgagees, tenants, workmen, or contractors.

2. If, upon inspection of a dwelling unit during the term of a tenancy, the landlord determines there is a violation by the tenant of § [55.1-1227](/vacode/55.1-1227/) or the rental agreement materially affecting health and safety that can be remedied by repair, replacement of a damaged item, or cleaning in accordance with § [55.1-1248](/vacode/55.1-1248/), the landlord may make such repairs and send the tenant an invoice for payment. If, upon inspection of the dwelling unit during the term of a tenancy, the landlord discovers a violation of the rental agreement, this chapter, or other applicable law, the landlord may send a written notice of termination pursuant to § [55.1-1245](/vacode/55.1-1245/).

3. If the rental agreement so provides and if a tenant without reasonable justification declines to permit the landlord or managing agent to exhibit the dwelling unit for sale or lease, the landlord may recover damages, costs, and reasonable attorney fees against such tenant.

As used in this subdivision, "reasonable justification" includes the tenant's reasonable concern for his own health, or the health of any authorized occupant, during a state of emergency declared by the Governor pursuant to § [44-146.17](/vacode/44-146.17/) in response to a communicable disease of public health threat as defined in § [44-146.16](/vacode/44-146.16/), provided that the tenant has provided written notice to the landlord informing the landlord of such concern. In such circumstances, the tenant shall provide to the landlord or managing agent a video tour of the dwelling unit or other acceptable substitute for exhibiting the dwelling unit for sale or lease.

4. The landlord may enter the dwelling unit without consent of the tenant in case of emergency. The landlord shall not abuse the right of access or use it to harass the tenant. Except in case of emergency or if it is impractical to do so, the landlord shall give the tenant notice of his intent to enter and may enter only at reasonable times. Unless impractical to do so, the landlord shall give the tenant at least 72 hours' notice of routine maintenance to be performed that has not been requested by the tenant. If the tenant makes a request for maintenance, the landlord is not required to provide notice to the tenant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, during a state of emergency declared by the Governor pursuant to § [44-146.17](/vacode/44-146.17/) in response to a communicable disease of public health threat as defined in § [44-146.16](/vacode/44-146.16/), the tenant may provide written notice to the landlord requesting that one or more nonemergency property conditions in the dwelling unit not be addressed in the normal course of business of the landlord due to such communicable disease of public health threat. In such case, the tenant shall be deemed to have waived any and all claims and rights under this chapter against the landlord for failure to address such nonemergency property conditions. At any time thereafter, the tenant may consent in writing to the landlord addressing such nonemergency property conditions in the normal course of business of the landlord. In the case of a tenant who has provided notice that he does not want nonemergency repairs made during the state of emergency due to a communicable disease of public health threat, the landlord may nonetheless enter the dwelling unit to do nonemergency repairs and maintenance with at least seven days' written notice to the tenant and at a time consented to by the tenant, no more than once every six months, provided that the employees and agents sent by the landlord are wearing all appropriate and reasonable personal protective equipment as required by state law. Furthermore, if the landlord is required to conduct maintenance or an inspection pursuant to the agreement for the loan or insurance policy that covers the dwelling unit, the tenant shall allow such maintenance or inspection, provided that the employees and agents sent by the landlord are wearing all appropriate personal protective equipment as required by state law.

5. During the pendency of an unlawful detainer filed by the landlord against the tenant, the landlord may request the court to enter an order requiring the tenant to provide the landlord with access to such dwelling unit.

B. Upon the sole determination by the landlord of the existence of a nonemergency property condition in the dwelling unit that requires the tenant to temporarily vacate the dwelling unit in order for the landlord to properly remedy such property condition, the landlord may, upon at least 30 days' written notice to the tenant, require the tenant to temporarily vacate the dwelling unit for a period not to exceed 30 days to a comparable dwelling unit, or hotel, as selected by the landlord and at no expense or cost to the tenant. The landlord shall not be required to pay for any other expenses of the tenant that arise after the temporary relocation period. The landlord and tenant may agree for the tenant to temporarily vacate the dwelling unit in less than 30 days. For purposes of this subsection, "nonemergency property condition" means (i) a condition in the dwelling unit that, in the determination of the landlord, is necessary for the landlord to remedy in order for the landlord to be in compliance with § [55.1-1220](/vacode/55.1-1220/); (ii) the condition does not need to be remedied within a 24-hour period, with any condition that needs to be remedied within 24 hours being defined as an "emergency condition"; and (iii) the condition can only be effectively remedied by the temporary relocation of the tenant pursuant to the provisions of this subsection.

The tenant shall continue to be responsible for payment of rent under the rental agreement during the period of any temporary relocation. The landlord shall pay all costs of repairs or remediation required to address the nonemergency property condition. Refusal of the tenant to cooperate with a temporary relocation pursuant to this subsection shall be deemed a breach of the rental agreement, unless the tenant agrees to vacate the unit and terminate the rental agreement within the 30-day notice period. If the landlord properly remedies the nonemergency property condition within the 30-day period, nothing in this section shall be construed to entitle the tenant to terminate the rental agreement. Further, nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the landlord from taking legal action against the tenant for any noncompliance that occurs during the period of any temporary relocation pursuant to this subsection. During the pendency of an unlawful detainer filed by the landlord against the tenant, the landlord may request the court to enter an order requiring the tenant to provide the landlord with access to such dwelling unit.

C. The landlord has no other right to access except by court order or that permitted by §§ [55.1-1248](/vacode/55.1-1248/) and [55.1-1249](/vacode/55.1-1249/) or if the tenant has abandoned or surrendered the premises.

D. The tenant may install within the dwelling unit new security systems that the tenant may believe necessary to ensure his safety, including chain latch devices approved by the landlord and fire detection devices, provided that:

1. Installation does no permanent damage to any part of the dwelling unit;

2. A duplicate of all keys and instructions for the operation of all devices are given to the landlord; and

3. Upon termination of the tenancy, the tenant is responsible for payment to the landlord for reasonable costs incurred for the removal of all such devices and repairs to all damaged areas.

E. Upon written request of a tenant in a dwelling unit, the landlord shall install a carbon monoxide alarm in the tenant's dwelling unit within 90 days. The landlord may charge the tenant a reasonable fee to recover the costs of the equipment and labor for such installation. The landlord's installation of a carbon monoxide alarm shall be in compliance with the Uniform Statewide Building Code (§ [36-97](/vacode/36-97/) et seq.).

1974, c. 680, § 55-248.18; 1993, c. 634; 1995, c. [601](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0601); 1999, c. [65](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0065); 2000, c. [760](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0760); 2001, c. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0524); 2004, c. [307](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0307); 2008, cc. [489](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0489), [617](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0617); 2009, c. [663](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0663); 2011, c. [766](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0766); 2014, c. [632](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0632); 2015, c. [596](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0596); 2016, c. [744](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0744); 2017, c. [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0730); 2018, cc. [41](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0041), [81](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0081); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [409](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0409).

