# § 55.1-1800 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Association" means the property owners' association.

"Board of directors" means the executive body of a property owners' association or a committee that is exercising the power of the executive body by resolution or bylaw.

"Capital components" means those items, whether or not a part of the common area, for which the association has the obligation for repair, replacement, or restoration and for which the board of directors determines funding is necessary.

"Common area" means property within a development which is owned, leased, or required by the declaration to be maintained or operated by a property owners' association for the use of its members and designated as a common area in the declaration.

"Common interest community" means the same as that term is defined in § [54.1-2345](/vacode/54.1-2345/).

"Common interest community manager" means the same as that term is defined in § [54.1-2345](/vacode/54.1-2345/).

"Declarant" means the person or entity signing the declaration and its successors or assigns who may submit property to a declaration.

"Declaration" means any instrument, however denominated, recorded among the land records of the county or city in which the development or any part of such development is located, that either (i) imposes on the association maintenance or operational responsibilities for the common area or (ii) creates the authority in the association to impose on lots, on the owners or occupants of such lots, or on any other entity any mandatory payment of money in connection with the provision of maintenance or services for the benefit of some or all of the lots, the owners or occupants of the lots, or the common area. "Declaration" includes any amendment or supplement to the instruments described in this definition. "Declaration" does not include a declaration of a condominium, real estate cooperative, time-share project, or campground.

"Development" means real property located within the Commonwealth subject to a declaration which contains both lots, at least some of which are residential or are occupied for recreational purposes, and common areas with respect to which any person, by virtue of ownership of a lot, is a member of an association and is obligated to pay assessments provided for in a declaration.

"Disclosure packet update" means an update of the financial information referenced in subdivisions A 2 through 9 of § [55.1-1809](/vacode/55.1-1809/). The update shall include a copy of the original disclosure packet.

"Electronic means" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient of such communication. A meeting conducted by electronic means includes a meeting conducted via teleconference, videoconference, Internet exchange, or other electronic methods. Any term used in this definition that is defined in § [59.1-480](/vacode/59.1-480/) of the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act shall have the meaning set forth in such section.

"Financial update" means an update of the financial information referenced in subdivisions A 2 through 7 of § [55.1-1809](/vacode/55.1-1809/).

"Lot" means (i) any plot or parcel of land designated for separate ownership or occupancy shown on a recorded subdivision plat for a development or the boundaries of which are described in the declaration or in a recorded instrument referred to or expressly contemplated by the declaration, other than a common area, and (ii) a unit in a condominium association or a unit in a real estate cooperative if the condominium or cooperative is a part of a development.

"Lot owner" means one or more persons who own a lot, including any purchaser of a lot at a foreclosure sale, regardless of whether the deed is recorded in the land records where the lot is located. "Lot owner" does not include any person holding an interest in a lot solely as security for a debt.

"Professionally managed" means a common interest community that has engaged (i) a common interest community manager to provide management services to the community or (ii) a person as an employee for compensation to provide management services to the community, other than a resident of the community who provides bookkeeping, billing, or recordkeeping services for that community.

"Property owners' association" or "association" means an incorporated or unincorporated entity upon which responsibilities are imposed and to which authority is granted in the declaration.

"Settlement agent" means the same as that term is defined in § [55.1-1000](/vacode/55.1-1000/).

1989, c. 679, § 55-509; 1991, c. 667; 1996, c. [618](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0618); 1998, c. [623](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0623); 2001, c. [715](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0715); 2002, c. [459](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0459); 2003, c. [422](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0422); 2008, cc. [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871); 2011, c. [334](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0334); 2015, cc. [93](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0093), [410](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0410); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [9](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0009), [494](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0494).

