# § 55.1-1976 Public offering statement; condominium securities.

A. A public offering statement shall disclose fully and accurately the characteristics of the condominium and the units being offered and shall make known to prospective purchasers all unusual and material circumstances or features affecting the condominium. The proposed public offering statement submitted to the Common Interest Community Board shall be in a form prescribed by its regulations and shall include the following:

1. The name and principal address of the declarant and the condominium;

2. A general narrative description of the condominium stating the total number of units in the offering, the total number of units planned to be sold and rented, and the total number of units that may be included in the condominium by reason of future expansion or merger of the project by the declarant;

3. Copies of the declaration and bylaws, with a brief narrative statement describing each and including information on declarant control; a projected budget for at least the first year of the condominium's operation, including projected common expense assessments for each unit; and provisions for reserves for capital expenditures and restraints on alienation;

4. Copies of any management contract, lease of recreational areas, or similar contract or agreement affecting the use, maintenance, or access of all or any part of the condominium with a brief narrative statement of the effect of each such agreement upon a purchaser, and a statement of the relationship, if any, between the declarant and the managing agent or firm;

5. A general description of the status of construction, zoning, site plan approval, issuance of building permits, or compliance with any other state or local statute or regulation affecting the condominium;

6. The significant terms of any encumbrances, easements, liens, and matters of title affecting the condominium;

7. The significant terms of any financing offered by the declarant to the purchaser of units in the condominium;

8. Provisions of any warranties provided by the declarant on the units and the common elements, other than the warranty prescribed by subsection B of § [55.1-1955](/vacode/55.1-1955/);

9. A statement that, pursuant to subdivision 2 of § [55.1-1974](/vacode/55.1-1974/), the purchaser may cancel the disposition within five calendar days of delivery of the current public offering statement or within five calendar days of the contract date of the disposition, whichever is later;

10. A statement of the declarant's obligation to complete improvements of the condominium that are planned but not yet begun or begun but not yet completed. Such statement shall include a description of the quality of the materials to be used, the size or capacity of the improvements when material, and the time by which the improvements shall be completed. Any limitations on the declarant's obligation to begin or complete any such improvements shall be expressly stated;

11. If the units in the condominium are being subjected to a time-share instrument pursuant to § [55.1-2208](/vacode/55.1-2208/), the information required to be disclosed by § [55.1-2217](/vacode/55.1-2217/);

12. A statement listing the facilities or amenities that are defined as common elements or limited common elements in the condominium instruments that are available to a purchaser for use. Such statement shall also include whether there are any fees or other charges for the use of such facilities or amenities that are not included as part of any assessment and the amount of such fees or charges, if any, a purchaser may be required to pay;

13. A statement of any limitation on the number of persons who may occupy a unit as a dwelling;

14. A statement setting forth any restrictions, limitation, or prohibition on the right of a unit owner to display the flag of the United States, including reasonable restrictions as to the size, place, and manner of placement or display of such flag; and

15. Additional information required by the Common Interest Community Board to assure full and fair disclosure to prospective purchasers.

B. The public offering statement shall not be used for any promotional purposes before registration of the condominium project and shall be used afterwards only if it is used in its entirety. No person may advertise or represent that the Common Interest Community Board approves or recommends the condominium or disposition of any unit in the condominium. No portion of the public offering statement may be underscored, italicized, or printed in larger or heavier or different color type than the remainder of the statement unless the Common Interest Community Board requires it.

C. The Common Interest Community Board may require the declarant to alter or amend the proposed public offering statement in order to assure full and fair disclosure to prospective purchasers, and no change in the substance of the promotional plan or plan of disposition or development of the condominium may be made after registration without notifying the Common Interest Community Board and without making appropriate amendment of the public offering statement. A public offering statement is not current unless all amendments are incorporated.

D. If an interest in a condominium is currently registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, a declarant satisfies all requirements relating to the preparation of a public offering statement in this chapter if he delivers to the purchaser and files with the Common Interest Community Board a copy of the public offering statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. An interest in a condominium is not a security under the provisions of the Securities Act (§ [13.1-501](/vacode/13.1-501/) et seq.).

1974, c. 416, § 55-79.90; 1977, c. 428; 1986, c. 324; 1996, cc. [281](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0281), [888](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0888); 1999, c. [560](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0560); 2006, c. [646](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0646); 2007, cc. [854](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0854), [910](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0910); 2011, c. [605](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0605); 2014, c. [215](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0215); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

