# § 55.1-1811 Fees for disclosure packet; associations not professionally managed.

A. An association that is not professionally managed may charge a fee for the preparation and issuance of the association disclosure packet required by § [55.1-1809](/vacode/55.1-1809/). Any fee shall reflect the actual cost of the preparation of the association disclosure packet, but shall not exceed $0.10 per page of copying costs or a total of $100 for all costs incurred in preparing the association disclosure packet. The seller or his authorized agent shall specify whether the association disclosure packet shall be delivered electronically or in hard copy and shall specify the complete contact information of the parties to whom the disclosure packet shall be delivered. If the seller or his authorized agent specifies that delivery shall be made to the purchaser or his authorized agent, the preparer shall provide the disclosure packet directly to the designated persons at the same time it is delivered to the seller or his authorized agent. The association shall advise the requester if electronic delivery of the disclosure packet or the disclosure packet update or financial update is not available, if electronic delivery has been requested by the seller or his authorized agent.

B. At the option of the seller or the seller's authorized agent, with the consent of the association, a reasonable fee may be charged for (i) expediting the inspection, preparation, and delivery of the disclosure packet, if completed within five business days of the request, not to exceed $50; (ii) an additional hard copy of the disclosure packet not to exceed $25 per hard copy; and (iii) third-party commercial delivery service for hand delivery or overnight delivery of the association disclosure packet not to exceed an amount equal to the actual cost paid.

C. No fees other than those specified in this section shall be charged by the association for compliance with duties and responsibilities under this section. Any fees charged pursuant to this section shall be collected at the time of delivery of the disclosure packet. If unpaid, any such fees shall be an assessment against the lot and collectible as any other assessment in accordance with the provisions of the declaration and § [55.1-1833](/vacode/55.1-1833/). The seller may pay the association by cash, check, certified funds, or credit card, if credit card payment is an option offered by the association.

D. If an association disclosure packet has been issued for a lot within the preceding 12-month period, a person specified in the written instructions of the seller or his authorized agent, including the seller or his authorized agent, or the purchaser or his authorized agent may request a disclosure packet update. The requester shall specify whether the disclosure packet update shall be delivered electronically or in hard copy and shall specify the complete contact information of the parties to whom the specified update shall be delivered. The disclosure packet update shall be delivered within 10 days of the written request for such disclosure packet update.

E. The settlement agent may request a financial update. The requester shall specify whether the financial update shall be delivered electronically or in hard copy, and shall specify the complete contact information of the parties to whom the update shall be delivered. The financial update shall be delivered within three business days of the written request for such financial update.

F. A reasonable fee for the disclosure packet update or a financial update may be charged by the preparer not to exceed $50. At the option of the purchaser or his authorized agent, the requester may request that the association perform an additional inspection of the exterior of the dwelling unit and the lot, as authorized in the declaration, for a fee not to exceed $50. Any fees charged for the specified update shall be collected at the time of delivery of the update. The association shall not require cash, check, certified funds, or credit card payments at the time the request is made for the disclosure packet update. The requester may request that the specified update be provided in hard copy or in electronic form.

G. No association may require the requester to request the specified update electronically. The seller or his authorized agent shall continue to have the right to request a hard copy of the specified update in person at the association's principal place of business. If the requester asks that the specified update be provided in electronic format, the association shall not require the requester to pay any fees to use the provider's electronic network or system. If the requester asks that the specified update be provided in electronic format, the requester may designate no more than two additional recipients to receive the specified update in electronic format at no additional charge. A copy of the specified update shall be provided to the seller or his authorized agent.

H. When a disclosure packet has been delivered as required by § [55.1-1809](/vacode/55.1-1809/), the association shall, as to the purchaser, be bound by the statements set forth in the disclosure packet as to the status of the assessment account and the status of the lot with respect to any violation of the declaration, bylaws, rules and regulations, architectural guidelines, and articles of incorporation, if any, of the association as of the date of the statement unless the purchaser had actual knowledge that the contents of the disclosure packet were in error.

I. If the association has been requested to furnish the association disclosure packet required by this section, failure to provide the association disclosure packet substantially in the form provided in this section shall be deemed a waiver of any claim for delinquent assessments or of any violation of the declaration, bylaws, rules and regulations, or architectural guidelines existing as of the date of the request with respect to the subject lot. The association shall be liable to the seller in an amount equal to the actual damages sustained by the seller in an amount not to exceed $500. The purchaser shall nevertheless be obligated to abide by the declaration, bylaws, rules and regulations, and architectural guidelines of the association as to all matters arising after the date of the settlement of the sale.

J. No association may collect fees authorized by this section unless the association (i) is registered with the Common Interest Community Board, (ii) is current in filing the most recent annual report and fee with the Common Interest Community Board pursuant to § [55.1-1835](/vacode/55.1-1835/), and (iii) is current in paying any assessment made by the Common Interest Community Board pursuant to § [54.1-2354.5](/vacode/54.1-2354.5/).

K. An association that is not professionally managed may charge and collect fees for inspection of the property, the preparation and issuance of an association disclosure packet, and such other services as set out in § [55.1-1810](/vacode/55.1-1810/), provided that the association provides the disclosure packet electronically if so requested by the requester and otherwise complies with § [55.1-1810](/vacode/55.1-1810/).

2008, cc. [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871), § 55-509.7; 2010, c. [165](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0165); 2011, c. [334](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0334); 2018, c. [226](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0226); 2019, cc. [391](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0391), [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

