# ยง 55.1-2234 Developer's obligation to complete.

A. The developer shall complete all promised and incomplete units and common elements being offered and described in the time-share instrument and the public offering statement. The developer shall be excused for any period of delay in the completion of such promised units and common elements when delayed, hindered, or prevented from doing so by causes beyond the developer's control, which shall include (i) labor disputes not caused by the developer; (ii) riots; (iii) civil commotion or insurrection; (iv) war or warlike operations; (v) governmental restrictions, regulations, or control; (vi) inability to obtain any materials or services; (vii) fire or other casualties; (viii) acts of God; or (ix) forces not under the control or supervision of the developer.

B. The developer shall file with the Board a payment and performance bond in the sum equal to 100 percent of the estimated cost of completing all promised and incomplete units and common elements comprising the time-share project described in the time-share instrument and the public offering statement. Such bond shall be conditioned upon the completion of such units and common elements in conformity with the plans and specifications for such improvements. The bond shall be with a surety company authorized to do business in the Commonwealth. The Board may accept cash or an irrevocable letter of credit in lieu of the bond required by this section. The Board shall be the sole determiner of the form, amount, content, obligee, and conditions of the letter of credit. Should it become necessary for the Board to call upon the letter of credit in order to assure completion of the improvements, the Board shall have the authority to petition a court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a receiver to administer such completion.

1981, c. 462, ยง 55-386; 1983, c. 59; 1985, c. 517; 1994, c. [580](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0580); 1998, c. [460](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0460); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

