# § 55.1-1310 Sale or lease of manufactured home by manufactured home owner.

A. For purposes of this section:

"Military status" means status as (i) a member of the uniformed forces, as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101(a)(5), of the United States or a reserve component thereof named under 10 U.S.C. § 10101, (ii) a veteran as defined in 38 U.S.C. § 101(2), or (iii) a dependent as defined in 50 U.S.C. § 3911(4) except that the support provided by the service member to the individual shall have been provided 180 days immediately preceding an alleged action that if proven true would constitute unlawful discrimination under this section instead of 180 days immediately preceding an application for relief under 50 U.S.C. Chapter 50.

"Religion" includes any outward expression of religious faith, including adherence to religious dressing and grooming practices and the carrying or display of religious items or symbols.

B. No landlord shall unreasonably refuse or restrict the sale or rental of a manufactured home located in his manufactured home park by a tenant. No landlord shall prohibit the manufactured home owner from placing a "for sale" sign on or in the owner's home except that the size, placement, and character of all signs are subject to the rules and regulations of the manufactured home park. Prior to selling or leasing the manufactured home, the tenant shall give notice to the landlord, including the name of the prospective vendee or lessee if the prospective vendee or lessee intends to occupy the manufactured home in that manufactured home park. The landlord shall have the burden of proving that his refusal or restriction regarding the sale or rental of a manufactured home was reasonable. The refusal or restriction of the sale or rental of a manufactured home exclusively or predominantly based on the age of the home shall be considered unreasonable. Any refusal or restriction based on race, color, religion, national origin, military status, familial status, marital status, elderliness, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, sex, or pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions shall be conclusively presumed to be unreasonable.

1975, c. 535, § 55-248.47; 1986, c. 586; 1992, c. 709; 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712); 2020, cc. [1137](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1137), [1140](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1140); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [477](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0477), [478](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0478); 2022, c. [799](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0799).

