# ยง 55.1-2247 General powers and duties of Board.

A. The Board may adopt, amend, and repeal rules and regulations and issue orders consistent with and in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter. The Board may prescribe forms and procedures for submitting information to the Board.

B. The Board may accept grants in aid from any governmental source and may contract with agencies charged with similar functions in this or other jurisdictions, in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter.

C. The Board may cooperate with agencies performing similar functions in this and other jurisdictions to develop uniform filing procedures and forms, uniform disclosure standards, and uniform administrative practices and may develop information that may be useful in the discharge of the Board's duties.

D. 1. The Board may issue an order requiring the developer or reseller to cease and desist from the unlawful practice and to take such affirmative action as in the judgment of the Board will carry out the purposes of this chapter if it determines after legal notice and opportunity for hearing that a developer or reseller or an agent of a developer or reseller has:

a. Made any representation in any document or information filed with the Board that is false or misleading;

b. Engaged or is engaging in any unlawful act or practice;

c. Disseminated or caused to be disseminated orally, or in writing, any false or misleading promotional materials in connection with a time-share program;

d. Concealed, diverted, or disposed of any funds or assets of any person in a manner impairing rights of purchasers of time-shares in the time-share program;

e. Failed to perform any stipulation or agreement made to induce the Board to issue an order relating to that time-share program;

f. Otherwise violated any provision of this chapter or any of the Board's rules and regulations or orders; or

g. Disposed of any time-share in a time-share program without first complying with the requirements of this chapter.

2. If the Board makes a finding of fact in writing that the public interest will be irreparably harmed by delay in issuing an order, as prescribed in subdivision 1, it may issue a temporary order to cease and desist or to take such affirmative action as may be deemed appropriate by the agency. Prior to issuing the temporary order, the Board shall give notice of the proposal to issue a temporary order to the developer or the reseller. Every temporary order shall include in its terms:

a. A provision clearly stating the reasons for issuing such order and the nature and extent of the facts and findings on which the order is based;

b. A provision that a failure to comply with such temporary order will be a violation of this chapter; and

c. A provision that upon request a hearing will be held promptly to determine whether or not the order shall become permanent.

The Board shall not issue more than one temporary order with reference to such finding of fact as prescribed in this subsection.

E. The Board may also issue a cease and desist order if the developer has not registered the time-share program as required by this chapter or if a reseller has not registered as required by this chapter.

F. The Board, after notice and hearing, may issue an order revoking the registration of the developer's time-share program or the registration of a reseller upon determination that such developer, reseller, or agent of such developer or reseller has failed to comply with a cease and desist order issued by the Board affecting the developer's time-share program or the reseller.

G. If it appears that any person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice in violation of this chapter or any of the Board's rules, regulations, or orders applicable to this chapter, the Board, without prior administrative proceedings, may bring an action in the circuit court of the county or city in which any portion of the time-share project is located to enjoin that act or practice or for other appropriate relief. The Board is not required to post a bond or prove that no adequate remedy at law exists.

H. Upon request of a time-share owner, the Board shall, in accordance with subsection B of ยง [55.1-2230](/vacode/55.1-2230/), issue its determination whether compliance with ยง [55.1-2220](/vacode/55.1-2220/) or [55.1-2234](/vacode/55.1-2234/) has occurred.

1981, c. 462, ยง 55-396; 1985, c. 517; 1998, c. [460](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0460); 2008, c. [376](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0376); 2011, c. [605](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0605); 2012, c. [751](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0751); 2019, cc. [467](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0467), [499](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0499), [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712); 2020, c. [1011](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1011).

