# § 55.1-1920 Contents of plats and plans.

A. There shall be recorded simultaneously with the declaration one or more plats of survey showing the location and dimensions of the submitted land, the location and dimensions of any convertible lands within the submitted land, the location and dimensions of any existing improvements, the intended location and dimensions of any contemplated improvements that are to be located on any portion of the submitted land other than within the boundaries of any convertible lands, and, to the extent feasible, the location and dimensions of all easements appurtenant to the submitted land or otherwise subject to this chapter as a part of the common elements. If the submitted land is not contiguous, then the plats shall indicate the distances between the parcels constituting the submitted land. The plats shall label every convertible land as a convertible land, and if there is more than one such land, the plats shall label each such land with one or more letters or numbers different from those designating any other convertible land and different also from the identifying number of any unit. The plats shall show the location and dimensions of any withdrawable lands and shall label each such land as a withdrawable land. The plats shall show the location and dimensions of any additional lands and shall label each such land as an additional land. If, with respect to any portion, but less than all, of the submitted land, the unit owners are to own only an estate for years, the plats shall show the location and dimensions of any such portion, and shall label each such portion as a leased land. If there is more than one withdrawable land, or more than one leased land, the plats shall label each such land with one or more letters or numbers different from those designating any convertible land or other withdrawable or leased land, and different also from the identifying number of any unit. The plats shall show all easements to which the submitted land or any portion of such submitted land is subject and shall show the location and dimensions of all such easements to the extent feasible. The plats shall also show all encroachments by or on any portion of the condominium. In the case of any improvements located or to be located on any portion of the submitted land other than within the boundaries of any convertible lands, the plats shall indicate which, if any, have not been begun by the use of the phrase "NOT YET BEGUN" and which, if any, have been begun but have not been substantially completed by the use of the phrase "NOT YET COMPLETED." In the case of any units the vertical boundaries of which lie wholly or partially outside of structures for which plans pursuant to subsection B are simultaneously recorded, the plats shall show the location and dimensions of such vertical boundaries to the extent that they are not shown on such plans, and the units or portions thereof thus depicted shall bear their identifying numbers. Each plat shall be certified in a recorded document as to its accuracy and compliance with the provisions of this subsection by a licensed land surveyor, and the surveyor shall certify in such document or on the face of the plat that all units or portions of such units depicted on such plat pursuant to the preceding sentence of this subsection have been substantially completed. The specification within this subsection of items that shall be shown on the plats shall not be construed to mean that the plats shall not also show all other items customarily shown or hereafter required for land title surveys.

B. Plans shall also be recorded with the declaration. Such plans shall show every structure that contains or constitutes all or part of any unit and that is located on any portion of the submitted land other than within the boundaries of any convertible lands. The plans shall show the location and dimensions of the vertical boundaries of each unit to the extent that such boundaries lie within or coincide with the boundaries of such structures, and the units or portions of the submitted units so depicted shall bear their identifying numbers. In addition, each convertible space so depicted shall be labeled as convertible space. The horizontal boundaries of each unit having horizontal boundaries shall be identified on the plans with reference to established datum. Unless the condominium instruments expressly provide otherwise, it shall be presumed that in the case of any unit not wholly contained within or constituting one or more such structures, the horizontal boundaries thus identified extend, in the case of each such unit, at the same elevation with regard to any part of such unit, lying outside of such structures, subject to the following exception: In the case of any such unit that does not lie over any other unit other than basement units, it shall be presumed that the lower horizontal boundary, if any, of that unit lies at the level of the ground with regard to any part of that unit lying outside of such structures. The plans shall be certified on their face or in another recorded document as to their accuracy and compliance with the provisions of this subsection by a licensed architect, licensed engineer, or licensed land surveyor, and such architect, engineer, or land surveyor shall certify on the plans or in the recorded document that all units or portions of the submitted units depicted on such plans have been substantially completed.

C. When converting all or any portion of any convertible land, or adding additional land to an expandable condominium, the declarant shall record, with regard to any structures on the land being converted or added, either plats of survey conforming to the requirements of subsection A and plans conforming to the requirements of subsection B, or certifications conforming to the certification requirements of such subsections of plats and plans previously recorded pursuant to § [55.1-1922](/vacode/55.1-1922/).

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A and B, a time-share interest in a unit that has been subjected to a time-share instrument pursuant to § [55.1-2208](/vacode/55.1-2208/) may be conveyed prior to substantial completion of that unit if (i) a completion bond has been filed in compliance with subsection B of § [55.1-1921](/vacode/55.1-1921/) and remains in full force and effect until the unit is certified as substantially complete in accordance with subsections A and B and (ii) the settlement agent or title insurance company insuring the time-share estate in the unit certifies to the purchaser in writing, based on information provided by the Common Interest Community Board, that the bond has been filed with the Common Interest Community Board.

E. When converting all or any portion of any convertible space into one or more units or limited common elements, the declarant shall record, with regard to the structure or portion of such structure constituting that convertible space, plans showing the location and dimensions of the vertical boundaries of each unit or limited common elements formed out of such space. Such plans shall be certified as to their accuracy and compliance with the provisions of this subsection by a licensed architect, licensed engineer, or licensed land surveyor.

F. For the purposes of subsections A, B, and C, all provisions and requirements relating to units shall be deemed equally applicable to limited common elements. The limited common elements shall be labeled as such, and each limited common element depicted on the plats and plans shall show the identifying number of the unit to which it is assigned, if it has been assigned, unless the provisions of subdivision 5 of § [55.1-1912](/vacode/55.1-1912/) make such designations unnecessary.

1974, c. 416, § 55-79.58; 1975, c. 415; 1984, c. 601; 1991, c. 497; 1999, c. [560](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0560); 2008, cc. [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

