# ยง 55.1-1968 Bond to be posted by declarant.

A. The declarant of a condominium containing units that are required by this chapter to be registered with the Common Interest Community Board shall post a bond in favor of the unit owners' association with good and sufficient surety, in a sum equal to $1,000 per unit, except that such sum shall not be less than $10,000, nor more than $100,000. Such bond shall be filed with the Common Interest Community Board and shall be maintained for so long as the declarant owns more than 10 percent of the units in the condominium or, if the declarant owns less than 10 percent of the units in the condominium, until the declarant is current in the payment of assessments. However, the Board shall return a bond where the declarant owns one unit in a condominium containing less than 10 units, provided that such declarant is current in the payment of assessments.

B. No bond shall be accepted for filing unless it is with a surety company authorized to do business in the Commonwealth or by such other surety as is satisfactory to the Board, and such bond shall be conditioned upon the payment of all assessments levied against condominium units owned by the declarant. The Board may accept a letter of credit in lieu of the bond contemplated by this section.

The Board may promulgate reasonable regulations that govern the return of bonds submitted in accordance with this section.

1977, c. 428, ยง 55-79.84:1; 1981, c. 480; 1984, c. 601; 1985, c. 107; 1988, c. 15; 1993, cc. 667, 900; 2008, cc. [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0851), [871](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0871); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

