# ยง 55.1-2174 General powers and duties of the Common Interest Community Board.

A. The Common Interest Community Board may adopt, amend, and repeal regulations and issue orders consistent with and in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter, but the Common Interest Community Board shall not intervene in the internal activities of an association except to the extent necessary to prevent or cure violations of this chapter. The Common Interest Community Board may prescribe forms and procedures for submitting information to the Common Interest Community Board.

B. If it appears that any person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in any act or practice in violation of this chapter or any of the Common Interest Community Board's regulations or orders, the Common Interest Community Board without prior administrative proceedings may bring an action in the appropriate court to enjoin that act or practice or for other appropriate relief. The Common Interest Community Board is not required to post a bond or prove that no adequate remedy at law exists.

C. The Common Interest Community Board may intervene in any action involving the powers or responsibilities of a declarant in connection with any cooperative for which an application for registration is on file.

D. The Common Interest Community Board may accept grants-in-aid from any governmental source and may contract with agencies charged with similar functions in this or other jurisdictions in furtherance of the objectives of this chapter.

E. The Common Interest Community Board may cooperate with agencies performing similar functions in this and other jurisdictions to develop uniform filing procedures and forms, uniform disclosure standards, and uniform administrative practices and may develop information that may be useful in the discharge of the agency's duties.

F. In issuing any cease and desist order or order rejecting or revoking registration of a cooperative, the Common Interest Community Board shall state the basis for the adverse determination and the underlying facts.

G. The Common Interest Community Board, in its sound discretion, may require bonding, escrow of portions of sales proceeds, or other safeguards it may prescribe by its regulations to guarantee completion of all improvements labeled "MUST BE BUILT" pursuant to ยง [55.1-2171](/vacode/55.1-2171/).

1982, c. 277, ยง 55-502; 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

