# § 55.1-1305 Rent; liability of secured party taking possession of an abandoned manufactured home.

A. A secured party shall have no liability for rent or other charges to a landlord except as provided in this section.

B. In the event that a manufactured home subject to a security interest becomes an abandoned manufactured home, the landlord shall send notice of abandonment to the manufactured home owner, the secured party, and the dealer as provided for in § [55.1-1202](/vacode/55.1-1202/) at the addresses shown in the written rental agreement or rental application. The notice of abandonment shall state the amount of rent and the amount and nature of any reasonable charges in addition to rent for which the secured party will be liable. The notice shall include any written rental agreement previously signed by the tenant and the landlord.

C. A secured party that has a security interest in an abandoned manufactured home, and that has a right to possession of the manufactured home under § [8.9A-609](/vacode/8.9A-609/) or under the applicable security agreement, is liable to the landlord under the same payment terms as the tenant prior to the secured party's accrual of the right of possession and for any other reasonable charges in addition to rent incurred. Such liability is for the period that begins 15 days from receipt of the notice of abandonment by the secured party and ends upon the earlier to occur of the removal of the abandoned manufactured home from the manufactured home park or disposition of the abandoned manufactured home under §§ [8.9A-610](/vacode/8.9A-610/) through [8.9A-624](/vacode/8.9A-624/) or under the applicable security agreement.

D. This section shall not affect the availability of the landlord's lien as provided in § [55.1-1316](/vacode/55.1-1316/), nor shall this section impact the priority of the secured party's lien as provided in § [46.2-640](/vacode/46.2-640/).

E. Any rent or reasonable charges in addition to rent owed by the secured party to the landlord pursuant to this section shall be paid to the landlord prior to the removal of the manufactured home from the manufactured home park.

F. If a secured party that has a secured interest in an abandoned manufactured home becomes liable to the landlord pursuant to this section, then the relationship between the secured party and the landlord shall be governed by the rental agreement previously signed by the tenant and the landlord unless otherwise agreed, except that the term of the rental agreement shall convert to a month-to-month tenancy. No waiver is required to convert the rental agreement to a month-to-month tenancy. Either the landlord or the secured party may terminate the month-to-month tenancy upon giving written notice of at least 30 days. The secured party and the landlord are not required to execute a new rental agreement. Nothing in this section shall be construed to be a waiver of any rights by the tenant.

1991, c. 500, § 55-248.44:1; 1992, c. 709; 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

