# ยง 55.1-2142 Voting; proxies.

A. If only one of the multiple proprietary lessees of a unit is present at a meeting of the association, he is entitled to cast all the votes allocated to the cooperative interest of which that unit is a part. If more than one of the multiple proprietary lessees are present, the votes allocated to that cooperative interest may be cast only in accordance with the agreement of a majority in interest of the multiple proprietary lessees, unless the declaration expressly provides otherwise. There is majority agreement if any one of the multiple proprietary lessees casts the votes allocated to that cooperative interest without protest being made promptly to the person presiding over the meeting by any of the other proprietary lessees of the cooperative interest.

B. Votes allocated to a cooperative interest may be cast pursuant to a proxy duly executed by a proprietary lessee. If there is more than one proprietary lessee of a unit, each proprietary lessee of the unit may vote or register protest to the casting of votes by the other proprietary lessees of the unit through a duly executed proxy. A proprietary lessee may not revoke a proxy given pursuant to this section except by actual notice of revocation to the person presiding over a meeting of the association. A proxy is void if it is not dated or purports to be revocable without notice. A proxy terminates one year after its date, unless a shorter term is specified.

C. If the declaration requires that votes on specified matters affecting the cooperative be cast by lessees other than proprietary lessees of leased units: (i) the provisions of subsections A and B apply to lessees as if they were proprietary lessees; (ii) proprietary lessees who have leased their units to other persons may not cast votes on those specified matters; and (iii) lessees are entitled to notice of meetings, access to records, and other rights respecting those matters as if they were proprietary lessees. Proprietary lessees must also be given notice, in the manner provided in ยง [55.1-2140](/vacode/55.1-2140/), of all meetings at which such lessees may be entitled to vote.

D. All votes allocated to a cooperative interest owned by the association shall be deemed present for quorum purposes at all duly called meetings of the association and shall be deemed cast in the same proportions as the votes cast by proprietary lessees, other than the association.

1982, c. 277, ยง 55-467; 2004, c. [242](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0242); 2019, c. [712](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712).

