# ยง 56-237.1 Notification of intent to seek rate change in schedules required to be filed under ยง 56-236.

A. Every public utility, other than a public utility providing water or sewer service, that indicates upon existing required schedules, or upon new schedules required to be filed in lieu thereof, changes in rates, tolls, charges, rules and regulations, shall cause to have published, once a week for four successive weeks, in one or more newspapers in circulation in its franchise area and approved by the Commission, a notice of its intention to change its rates, tolls, charges, rules and regulations. Every public utility providing water or sewer service that indicates upon existing required schedules, or upon new schedules required to be filed in lieu thereof, changes in rates, tolls, charges, rules and regulations, shall cause to have published at least once in one or more newspapers in circulation in its franchise area and approved by the Commission, a notice of its intention to change its rates, tolls, charges, rules and regulations. The last such publication shall appear no less than 30 days prior to the time any changed rates, tolls, charges, rules and regulations shall take effect. This notice shall be in such form and contain such information as prescribed by the Commission.

B. Every public utility that indicates upon existing required schedules, or upon new schedules required to be filed in lieu thereof, changes in rates, tolls, charges, rules, and regulations shall mail to each of its customers who receive periodic statements of charges by mail or send electronically to each of its customers who receive periodic statements of charges electronically, along with its periodic invoice, bill, or other statement advising the customer of its charges, a notice of its intention to change its rates, tolls, charges, rules, and regulations. This notice shall be mailed or sent electronically no less than 30 days prior to the time any such changed rate, toll, charge, rule, and regulation shall take effect. This notice shall be in such form and contain such information as prescribed by the Commission.

C. Except for public utilities providing water or sewer service, the Commission may dispense with either or both of the requirements contained in subsections A and B if either or both such requirements are not necessary to provide adequate notice to all of the public utilities' customers. The Commission may prescribe additional requirements for notification to a public utility's customers of its intention to change its rates, tolls, charges, rules, and regulations.

1976, c. 763; 2011, cc. [738](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0738), [740](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0740); 2016, cc. [191](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0191), [283](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0283).

