# ยง 56-231.43 Powers.

A. Each cooperative formed under this article shall have power to do any and all lawful acts or things, including, but not limited to the power:

1. To purchase, sell, generate, store, transport or transmit energy, energy services, products and equipment.

2. To sue and be sued.

3. To have a seal and alter the same at pleasure.

4. To acquire, hold and dispose of property, real and personal, tangible and intangible, or interests therein and to pay in cash or property or on credit, and to secure and procure payment of all or any part of the purchase price thereof on such terms and conditions as the board shall determine.

5. To render service and to acquire, own, operate, maintain and improve a system or systems.

6. To accept gifts or grants of money or of property, real or personal, and to accept voluntary and uncompensated services.

7. To sell, lease, mortgage or otherwise encumber or dispose of all or any parts of its property.

8. To contract debts, borrow money and to issue or assume the payment of bonds and other obligations.

9. To fix, maintain and collect reasonable fees, rents, tolls and other charges for service rendered.

10. To exercise, with respect to its construction of regulated transmission facilities as a power supply cooperative, all the powers set forth in ยง [56-49](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/56-49/), including the power of eminent domain as prescribed for other public service corporations by general law.

11. To assist its members, by loans or otherwise, in the acquisition by them of energy and electrical, technological and other equipment related to the business of the cooperative.

12. To issue nonassessable nonvoting common and preferred capital stock or similar securities and pay dividends thereon.

13. To perform any and all of the foregoing acts through or by means of its own officers, agents and employees, or by contract.

B. A cooperative shall have the power and is authorized, from time to time, to issue its obligations for any corporate purpose.

1. The obligations may be authorized by resolution of the board, and may bear any date or dates, mature at any time or times, bear any interest, be payable at any times, be in any denominations, be in any form, either coupon or registered, carry any registration privileges, be executed in any manner, be payable in any medium of payment, at any place or places, and be subject to any terms of redemption, as provided by the resolution.

2. These obligations may be sold in the manner and upon the terms as the board may determine. Pending the preparation or execution of definitive bonds or obligations, interim receipts or certificates of temporary bonds may be delivered to the purchaser of such obligations.

C. A cooperative may purchase any of its own obligations.

D. The Virginia Securities Act (ยง [13.1-501](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-501/) et seq.) shall not apply to membership certificates issued by a cooperative or its cooperative affiliates, or subsidiaries organized prior to January 1, 1999.

1999, c. [874](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0874); 2000, cc. [944](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0944), [999](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0999).

