# ยง 56-491 Board of directors; officers.

Every cooperative formed hereunder shall have a board of directors of five or more members, which shall constitute the governing body of the cooperative. The directors, other than those named in the certificate of incorporation, shall be elected annually by the members entitled to vote, unless the bylaws provide that, in lieu of electing the whole number of directors annually, the directors shall be divided into either two or three classes at the first or any subsequent annual meeting, each class to be as nearly equal in number as possible, with the term of office of the directors of the first class to expire at the next succeeding annual meeting, the term of the second class to expire at the second succeeding annual meeting, and the term of the third class, if any, to expire at the third succeeding annual meeting; and that at each annual meeting after such classification a number of directors equal to the number of the class whose term expires at the time of such meeting shall be elected to hold office until the second succeeding annual meeting where the bylaws provide for two classes of directors; or until the third succeeding annual meeting where the bylaws provide for three classes of directors. The directors must be members of the cooperative. The board of directors shall have authority to fix the compensation of directors. Directors shall be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties. The directors shall elect annually from their own number a president and one or more vice-presidents. They shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, who need not be directors or members, and may combine the offices of secretary and treasurer and designate the combined office as secretary-treasurer.

1950, p. 590; 1956, c. 434; 1974, c. 73; 1978, c. 236.

