# ยง 56-536 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Board" means the Commonwealth Transportation Board.

"Certificate" means the certificate of authority awarded pursuant to this chapter which allows operation of a roadway.

"Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.

"Department" means the Virginia Department of Transportation.

"Highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way or place of whatever nature open to the use of the public under the provisions of this chapter for purposes of vehicular travel in this Commonwealth.

"Operation" means all functions and pursuits of the operator of any roadway under this chapter which are directly or indirectly related to acquisition, approval, construction, enlargement, maintenance, patrolling, toll collections, or connections of the roadway or highway with any other highway or with any street, road or alley. This term shall also include, without limitation, management and administrative functions attendant to actual physical operation of the roadway and management of the affairs of the operator.

"Operator" means the person who submits to the Commission an application for authority to construct, operate or enlarge a roadway, and which, after issuance of a certificate of authority, is responsible for operation of any roadway under the provisions of this chapter.

"Person" includes any natural person, corporation, partnership, joint venture, and any other business entity; however, "person" shall not include the state or any local government or agency thereof, or any municipal corporation or other corporate body.

"Roadway" means that portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. A highway may include two or more roadways if divided by a physical barrier or barriers or unpaved areas. "Roadway," as used in this chapter, shall include only privately owned or operated highways for use of which a toll or similar single-use charge is imposed.

"Toll" means the fee charged by the operator for a single use of all or a portion of the roadway.

1988, c. 649; 1991, c. 272.

