# § 56-555 Commission to implement the federal Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act.

A. The Commission is authorized to act for the United States Secretary of Transportation to implement the federal Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act, 49 U.S.C. § 60101 et seq., with respect to intrastate and interstate pipelines located within the Commonwealth to the extent authorized by certification or agreement with the Secretary under Section 205 of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. § 60106). To carry out its responsibilities under this section, the Commission shall have the same powers as given the Secretary in Sections 210 and 211 of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. §§ 60108, 60117 and 60120).

B. For the purposes of intrastate pipelines, any person failing or refusing to obey Commission orders relating to the adoption or enforcement of regulations for the design, construction, operation and maintenance of pipeline facilities and temporary or permanent injunctions issued by the Commission shall be fined such sums not exceeding the fines and penalties specified by § 208 (a) (1) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. § 60122 et seq.), as amended.

C. The Commission shall assess and collect from every hazardous liquid pipeline operator an inspection fee to be used by the Commission for administering the regulatory program authorized by this section. For purposes of interstate pipelines, such fees shall be computed based on the number of inspection man-days devoted to each pipeline operator to determine the operator's compliance with any provision of, or order or agreement issued under, the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. § 60101 et seq.), and shall not exceed the costs of inspection and investigation under this section. The costs shall not include expenses reimbursed by the federal government. The number of planned inspections conducted on each interstate pipeline operator shall be reasonable under the circumstances and prioritized by risk to the public or to the environment.

D. The authority granted to the Commission under this section to conduct inspections of interstate pipeline operators and facilities in the Commonwealth shall not extend to any official, employee, or agent of any political subdivision in the Commonwealth. No political subdivision shall have the authority to seek reimbursement for the cost of monitoring the inspections conducted by the Commission under this section. Nothing in this subsection, however, shall be deemed to impair or limit the police powers of such political subdivisions otherwise provided by law.

E. The authority of the Commission to act as an agent for the United States Secretary of Transportation with respect to interstate hazardous liquid pipelines shall become effective the first day of July next after the date the Commission receives a formal delegation of authority from the Secretary.

1994, c. [512](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0512).

