# § 56-615  Right to occupy rights-of-way; location of rights-of-way.

A. Every renewable generator shall have authority to occupy and use the public roads, works, turnpikes, streets, avenues, and alleys in any county, with the consent of the board of supervisors or other governing authority thereof, or in any incorporated city or town, with the consent of the council thereof, and the waterways within the Commonwealth, with the consent of the Marine Resources Commission, for the erection of distribution facilities. However, if the road or street is in the primary state highway system or the secondary state highway system, the consent of the board of supervisors or other governing authority of any county shall not be necessary, provided that a permit for such occupation and use is first obtained from the Department of Transportation. The use of any road or street in the primary state highway system or secondary state highway system that has been designated a limited access highway in accordance with § [33.2-401](/vacode/33.2-401/) shall not be permitted, unless the Department of Transportation approves an exception in accordance with the then-current policy.

B. Neither a locality nor the Department of Transportation shall impose any fees on a renewable generator for the use of public rights-of-way except in the manner prescribed in § [56-617](/vacode/56-617/).

C. Neither a locality nor the Department of Transportation shall impose on renewable generators, whether by franchise, ordinance, or other means, any restrictions or requirements concerning the use of the public rights-of-way that are (i) unfair or unreasonable or (ii) any greater than those imposed on providers of electric or natural gas utility service.

D. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any permit or other permission required by a locality pursuant to a franchise, ordinance, or other permission to use the public rights-of-way or by the Department of Transportation of a renewable generator to use the public rights-of-way shall be granted or denied within 45 days from submission and, if denied, accompanied by a written explanation of the reasons the permit was denied and the actions required to cure the denial.

E. Neither a locality receiving directly or indirectly a public rights-of-way use fee nor the Department of Transportation shall require a renewable generator to provide in-kind services or physical assets as a condition of consent to use public rights-of-way or easements, or in lieu of the public rights-of-way use fee.

F. This chapter shall not affect the obligation of the Department of Transportation to give notice, pursuant to § [33.2-272](/vacode/33.2-272/), to localities when it grants its permission for the construction, installation, location, or placement of a landfill gas pipeline within any highway right-of-way.

2009, c. [807](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0807), § 67-1101; 2013, cc. [585](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0585), [646](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0646); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [387](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387).

