# ยง 57-38.2 Proceedings by heir at law or descendant for removal of ancestor's remains from previously unidentified or abandoned family graveyard.

Any heir at law or descendant of a deceased person interred in a previously unidentified graveyard or an abandoned family graveyard in which no body has been interred for 25 years may file a bill in equity in the circuit court of the county or city wherein the land is located for the purpose of having the remains interred in the graveyard removed to some more suitable repository. The owner of the land, any beneficiaries of any reservation of rights, and all other persons in interest, known or unknown, other than the plaintiffs shall be duly made defendants. If any of such parties are unknown, notice may be given by order of publication. Upon the case being properly matured for hearing, and proof being made of the propriety of the removal, the court may order the removal and the remains properly deposited in another place, at the expense of the petitioner. The removal and reinterment shall be done with due care and decency.

The bill may be filed and relief granted regardless of whether there has been a reservation of rights in the graveyard and regardless of whether the beneficiaries of any reservation of rights desire to waive their rights. In determining the question of removal, the court shall consider the historical significance of the graveyard and the wishes of the parties concerned so far as they are brought to its knowledge, including the desire of any beneficiaries of any reservation in rights, and shall exercise sound discretion in granting or refusing the relief prayed for.

1990, c. 562; 2019, c. [195](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0195).

