# ยง 58.1-344.4 Voluntary contributions of refunds into Virginia College Savings Plan accounts.

A. If an individual is entitled to an income tax refund for the taxable year, that individual may designate on his Virginia individual income tax return a contribution to one or more Virginia College Savings Plan accounts established under Chapter 7 (ยง [23.1-700](/vacode/23.1-700/) et seq.) of Title 23.1, in the amount of the entire individual income tax refund or a portion thereof.

B. 1. The Department of Taxation shall send each contribution made pursuant to subsection A to the Virginia College Savings Plan with the following information:

a. The amount of the individual income tax refund or that portion of the refund that the individual has chosen to contribute;

b. The taxpayer's name, Social Security number or taxpayer identification number, address, and telephone number; and

c. The Virginia College Savings Plan account number or numbers into which the contributions will be deposited.

2. If a contribution to a Virginia College Savings Plan account is designated in an individual income tax return filed jointly by married individuals, the Department of Taxation shall send the information described in subdivision 1 for both spouses to the Virginia College Savings Plan.

C. 1. If the taxpayer owns a single Virginia College Savings Plan account, the Virginia College Savings Plan shall deposit the contribution made pursuant to subsection A into that account.

2. If the taxpayer owns more than one Virginia College Savings Plan account, the Virginia College Savings Plan shall allocate the contribution made pursuant to subsection A between or among the accounts in equal amounts, or as otherwise designated by the taxpayer.

3. If the taxpayer does not own an existing Virginia College Savings Plan account and does not wish to open an account, contributions made pursuant to subsection A shall be returned to the taxpayer by the Virginia College Savings Plan.

D. For the purpose of determining interest on an overpayment or refund under ยง [58.1-1833](/vacode/58.1-1833/), no interest shall accrue after the Department of Taxation sends the contribution to the Virginia College Savings Plan.

E. Any taxpayer designating that a refund be contributed to a Virginia College Savings Plan account shall, by making such designation, be deemed to authorize the Department of Taxation to provide all necessary information, including the information specified in subdivision B 1, to the Virginia College Savings Plan.

2013, cc. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0028), [402](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0402); 2020, c. [900](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0900).

