# ยง 58.1-2299.14 Recordkeeping requirements; inspection of records; civil penalties.

A. Every distributor required to make a return and pay or collect any tax under this chapter shall keep and preserve suitable records of the sales taxable under this chapter, and such other books of account as may be necessary to determine the amount of tax due hereunder, and such other pertinent information as may be required by the Commissioner. Such records shall be kept and maintained for a period to include the Department's current fiscal year and the previous three fiscal years.

B. The Commissioner or any agent authorized by him may examine during the usual business hours all records, books, papers, or other documents of any distributor required to be registered under this chapter relating to the amount of any fuel subject to taxation under this chapter to verify the truth and accuracy of any statement or any other information as to a particular sale.

C. Any person who fails to keep or retain records as required by this section shall be subject to a civil penalty. The amount of the civil penalty assessed against a person for his first violation shall be $1,000. The amount of the civil penalty assessed against a person for each subsequent violation shall be $1,000 more than the amount of the civil penalty for the preceding violation.

D. Any person who refuses to allow an inspection authorized under this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of $5,000 for each refusal.

2012, cc. [217](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0217), [225](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0225); 2018, cc. [797](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0797), [798](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0798).

