# ยง 58.1-3826 (Effective October 1, 2022) Scope of transient occupancy tax.

A. The transient occupancy tax imposed pursuant to the authority of this article shall be imposed only for the use or possession of any room or space that is suitable or intended for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes.

B. For any retail sale of accommodations not facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations provider shall collect the tax imposed pursuant to this article, computed on the total price paid for the use or possession of the accommodations, and shall remit the same to the locality and shall be liable for the same.

C. For any retail sale of accommodations facilitated by an accommodations intermediary, the accommodations intermediary shall be deemed under this article as a facility making a retail sale of an accommodation. The accommodations intermediary shall collect the tax imposed pursuant to this article, computed on the room charge, and shall remit the same to the locality and shall be liable for the same.

D. For any transaction for the retail sale of accommodations involving two or more parties that meet the definition of accommodations intermediary, nothing in this section shall prohibit such parties from making an agreement regarding which party shall be responsible for collecting and remitting the tax, so long as the party so responsible is registered with the locality for purposes of remitting the tax. In such event, the party that agrees to collect and remit the tax shall be the sole party liable for the tax, and the other parties to such agreement shall not be liable for such tax.

E. In any retail sale of any accommodations in which an accommodations intermediary does not facilitate the sale of the accommodations, the accommodations provider shall separately state the amount of the tax in the bill, invoice, or similar documentation and shall add the tax to the total price paid for the use or possession of the accommodations. In any retail sale of any accommodations in which an accommodations intermediary facilitates the sale of the accommodation, the accommodations intermediary shall separately state the amount of the tax on the bill, invoice, or similar documentation and shall add the tax to the room charge; thereafter, such tax shall be a debt from the customer to the accommodations intermediary, recoverable at law in the same manner as other debts.

F. Subject to applicable laws, an accommodations intermediary shall submit to a locality the property addresses and gross receipts for all accommodations facilitated by the accommodations intermediary in such locality. Such information shall be submitted monthly.

2005, c. [20](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0020); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [383](https://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0383); 2022, cc. [7](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0007), [640](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0640).

