# § 58.1-433.1 Virginia Coal Employment and Production Incentive Tax Credit.

A. For taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2001, but before January 1, 2022, every electricity generator in the Commonwealth shall be allowed a $3-per-ton credit against the tax imposed by § [58.1-400](/vacode/58.1-400/) or [58.1-400.2](/vacode/58.1-400.2/) for each ton of coal purchased and consumed by such electricity generator, provided such coal was mined in Virginia as certified by such seller. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no electricity generator shall be allowed more than a $3-per-ton coal tax credit and shall be subject to all limitations set forth in § [58.1-400.2](/vacode/58.1-400.2/). In no event shall the credit allowed hereunder exceed the total amount of tax liability of such taxpayer. Any tax credit not usable for the taxable year may be carried over to the extent usable for the next 10 succeeding taxable years or until the full credit is utilized, whichever is sooner. For the purposes of the credit provided by this section, "electricity generator" means any person who produces electricity for self-consumption or for sale.

B. For each such ton of coal described in subsection A that is purchased on or after January 1, 2006, but before January 1, 2022, from any person with an economic interest in coal as defined under § [58.1-439.2](/vacode/58.1-439.2/), the $3-per-ton credit allowed under subsection A may be allocated between such electricity generator and such person with an economic interest in coal. The allocation of the $3-per-ton credit may be provided in the contract between such parties for the sale of such coal. Such allocation may be amended by the execution of a written instrument by the parties prior to December 31 of the year of purchase of such coal. Such contracts and written instruments shall be subject to audit by the Department of Taxation to ensure the proper application of credits.

In no case shall the credit allocated for each such ton of coal among such electricity generators and such persons with an economic interest in coal exceed $3 per ton.

All credits earned on or after January 1, 2006, but before January 1, 2022, that are allocated to persons with an economic interest in coal as provided under this subsection may be used as tax credits by such persons against the tax imposed by § [58.1-400](/vacode/58.1-400/) and any other tax imposed by the Commonwealth. If the credits earned on or after January 1, 2006, but before January 1, 2022, exceed the state tax liability for the applicable taxable year of such person with an economic interest in coal, the excess shall be redeemable by the Tax Commissioner as set forth in subsection D of § [58.1-439.2](/vacode/58.1-439.2/), provided that the ability of persons with an economic interest in coal to redeem with the Tax Commissioner credits received pursuant to an allocation under this section shall expire for credits earned under this section on or after July 1, 2016.

C. If tax credits were earned under the provisions of this section prior to January 1, 2022, such credits may continue to be claimed on a return for taxable years on and after January 1, 2022, but only pursuant to the applicable carryover period specified in this section. A taxpayer claiming credits pursuant to the provisions of this subsection shall not claim more than $1 million in credits for a single taxable year. No taxpayer shall amend a return for a taxable year prior to January 1, 2022, to claim more in credits earned under the provisions of this section than such taxpayer stated on such return before amending it.

1999, c. [971](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0971); 2000, c. [929](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0929); 2006, cc. [788](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0788), [803](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0803); 2011, cc. [294](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0294), [851](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0851); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [553](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0553), [554](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0554).

