# ยง 58.1-3708 Situs for local license taxation of businesses, professions, occupations, etc.

A. Except as otherwise provided by law and except as to public service corporations, the situs for the local license taxation for any business, profession, trade, occupation or calling subject to licensure, shall be the county, city or town (hereinafter called "locality") in which the person so engaged has a definite place of business. If any such person has a definite place of business in any other locality, then such other locality may impose a license tax on him, provided such other locality is otherwise authorized to impose a local license tax with respect thereto.

B. Where a local license tax imposed by any locality is measured by volume, the volume on which the tax may be computed shall be the volume attributable to all definite places of business of the business, profession, trade, occupation or calling in such locality. All volume attributable to any definite places of business of the business, profession, trade, occupation or calling in any other locality shall be deductible from the base in computing any local license tax measured by volume imposed on him by the locality in which the first-mentioned definite place is located.

C. The word "volume," as used in this section, means gross receipts, sales, purchases, or other base for measuring a license tax which is related to the amount of business done.

D. This section shall not be construed as prohibiting any locality from requiring a separate license for each definite place of business located in such locality.

Code 1950, ยง 58-266.5; 1956, c. 449; 1962, c. 278; 1972, c. 601; 1974, c. 386; 1984, c. 675; 1996, cc. [715](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0715), [720](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0720).

