# ยง 58.1-3668 Motor vehicle of a disabled veteran.

A. As used in this section, "motor vehicle" means only a passenger car or a pickup or panel truck, as those terms are defined in ยง [46.2-100](/vacode/46.2-100/), that is registered for personal use.

B. Pursuant to subdivision (a)(8) of Article X, Section 6 of the Constitution of Virginia, one motor vehicle owned and used primarily by or for a veteran of the Armed Forces of the United States or the Virginia National Guard who has been rated by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs or its successor agency pursuant to federal law with a 100 percent service-connected, permanent, and total disability shall be exempt from taxation. Any such motor vehicle owned by a married person may qualify if either spouse is a veteran who is rated as 100 percent disabled. Any locality may establish procedures for a veteran to apply for the exemption and may enact any ordinance necessary for administration of the exemption.

C. This exemption shall be applicable beginning on the date the motor vehicle is acquired or January 1, 2021, whichever is later, and shall not be applicable for any period of time prior to January 1, 2021. The exemption shall expire on the date of the disabled veteran's death and shall not be available for his surviving spouse.

D. The provisions of ยง [58.1-3980](/vacode/58.1-3980/) shall apply to the exemption granted pursuant to this section.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [156](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0156).

