# ยง 58.1-317 Filing of estimated tax by nonresidents upon the sale of real property; penalties.

A. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, every nonresident payee receiving payments from the transfer of fee simple title in real property in this Commonwealth shall concurrent with the transfer of title register with the Department of Taxation pursuant to forms and regulations adopted by the Tax Commissioner.

B. The real estate reporting person as defined in ยง 6045(e) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder shall obtain from the nonresident payee the registration form required in subsection A of this section. The real estate reporting person shall retain a copy of the registration form in his files and shall transmit the original copy to the Department of Taxation on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the title was transferred. As prescribed by the Tax Commissioner, a payee may be excused from the filing of a registration form by furnishing the real estate reporting person with a certificate stating that the payment is not subject to the corporation or individual income tax.

C. If a nonresident payee fails to provide a completed registration form to the real estate reporting person or if such payee provides the real estate reporting person with a registration form that is incomplete or false on its face, the real estate reporting person shall file a registration form on behalf of the payee providing the payee's name, address, taxpayer identification number, and such other information as may be required by the Tax Commissioner. In the case of each failure to file a registration form with the Tax Commissioner on the date prescribed therefor, the real estate reporting person failing to file such registration form shall pay a $50 penalty for each month that each such failure to file continues, not exceeding six months in the aggregate.

D. Any payee who willfully supplies false or fraudulent information to a real estate reporting person with the intent to evade the payment of income taxes properly due on the transfer of fee simple title to real estate in this Commonwealth and any real estate reporting person who has actual knowledge that any information supplied by a payee is false or fraudulent and fails to notify the Department of Taxation of such shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

E. For purposes of this section, the term "nonresident payee" means every individual who is not a resident, every nonresident estate or trust, every partnership and S corporation which has nonresident partners or shareholders, or every corporation which is not formed or organized under Virginia law.

1990, c. 910.

