# ยง 58.1-1003.2 Roll-your-own tobacco cigarette excise tax; how paid; stamping process; records of stamping agents.

A. The taxes imposed by subsection B of ยง [58.1-1001](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1001/) shall be paid by the stamping agent at the time he files the return required pursuant to this section. Upon payment of the tax and production and transmission of the documentation required by this section, the subject roll-your-own tobacco shall be deemed to bear the Virginia revenue stamp otherwise required by this article.

B. Unless specifically provided otherwise in this section, the requirements for paying tax and filing returns relating to roll-your-own tobacco with the Department shall be as provided in Article 2.1 (ยง [58.1-1021.01](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1021.01/) et seq.) of this chapter.

C. Any manufacturer of roll-your-own tobacco who ships, delivers, or otherwise causes roll-your-own tobacco to be transported to a wholesale dealer, retail dealer, or stamping agent located within the Commonwealth shall include on an invoice accompanying each such shipment a listing of all roll-your-own tobacco included in the shipment by manufacturer, brand family, and brand style and the total weight in ounces of each such brand style. The manufacturer shall also include on the invoice the manufacturer's sales price, as that term is defined in ยง [58.1-1021.01](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1021.01/), for all roll-your-own tobacco included in the shipment by manufacturer, brand family, and brand style.

D. Any stamping agent who pays the cigarette excise tax imposed by this article on roll-your-own tobacco shall include, on an invoice accompanying each shipment he initiates that includes roll-your-own tobacco, a listing of all roll-your-own tobacco included in the shipment by manufacturer, brand family, and brand style and the total weight in ounces of each such brand style. In addition, the stamping agent shall note on each such invoice that he has paid or will pay the cigarette excise tax imposed by this article. An invoice prepared in accordance with this subsection shall be deemed the cigarette revenue stamp otherwise required by this article. Any wholesaler, distributor, or entity of any kind that subsequently ships the roll-your-own tobacco, or some portion of it, shall (i) cause a copy of the invoice to accompany such subsequent shipment, and (ii) indicate on an invoice prepared by the subsequent shipper any changes in quantity from that reflected in the initial invoice.

2006, c. [768](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0768).

