# ยง 58.1-2297 When tax return and payment are due; credits for overpayment.

A. Every distributor required to collect the taxes imposed under this chapter shall file a return with the Commissioner. Such return shall be in the form specified by the Commissioner and contain the information required by the Commissioner. The return and the payment for the taxes levied pursuant to this chapter shall be due for each full month in a calendar year. Any return and payment required under this section shall be deemed timely filed if received by the Commissioner by midnight of the twentieth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due. Each return shall report tax liabilities that accrue in the month for which the return is due.

B. Returns and payments shall be (i) postmarked on or before the fifteenth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due or (ii) received by the Department by the twentieth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due. However, a monthly return of the tax for the month of May shall be (a) postmarked by June 25 or (b) received by the Commissioner by the last business day the Department is open for business in June.

If a tax return and payment due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or a state or banking holiday, the return shall be postmarked on or before the fifteenth day of the second month succeeding the month for which the return and payment are due or received by the Department by midnight of the next business day the Department is open for business. This provision shall not apply to a return of the tax for the month of May.

A return and payment shall be deemed postmarked if it carries the official cancellation mark of the United States Postal Service or other postal or delivery service.

C. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other section in this chapter, the Commissioner may require all or certain distributors to file tax returns and payments electronically.

D. Persons incurring liability under ยง [58.1-2296](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-2296/) for the backup tax on fuel shall file a return together with a payment of tax due within 30 calendar days of incurring such liability.

E. Any person entitled to a credit for overpayment of a tax levied under this chapter shall claim such credit on his monthly return no later than one year following the date of the overpayment.

2012, cc. [217](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0217), [225](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0225).

