# ยง 58.1-4043 Reporting and investigating prohibited conduct.

A. The Department shall establish a hotline or other method of communication that allows any person to confidentially report information about prohibited conduct to the Board.

B. The Department shall investigate all reasonable allegations of prohibited conduct by a permit holder. The Department shall refer credible allegations of prohibited conduct by any person to the appropriate law-enforcement entity.

C. The Department shall maintain the confidentiality of the identity of any reporting person unless such person authorizes disclosure of his identity or until such time as the allegation of prohibited conduct is referred to law enforcement. If an allegation of prohibited conduct is referred to law enforcement, the Department shall disclose a reporting person's identity only to the applicable law-enforcement agency. The identity of a reporting person shall be excluded from the provisions of ยง [2.2-3705.7](/vacode/2.2-3705.7/).

D. If the Department receives a complaint of prohibited conduct by an athlete, the Department shall notify the appropriate sports governing body of the athlete to review the complaint.

E. The Department and permit holders shall cooperate with investigations conducted by sports governing bodies or law-enforcement agencies. Such cooperation shall include providing or facilitating the provision of account-level betting information and audio or video files relating to persons placing wagers.

2020, cc. [1218](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1218), [1256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1256).

