# ยง 58.1-4036 Use of official league data.

A. A permit holder may use any data source for determining the result of a tier 1 bet.

B. A sports governing body may notify the Department that it desires permit holders to use official league data to settle tier 2 bets. A notification under this subsection shall be made according to forms and procedures prescribed by the Director. The Director shall notify each permit holder of the sports governing body's notification within five days after the Department's receipt of the notification. If a sports governing body does not notify the Department of its desire to supply official league data, a permit holder may use any data source for determining the result of a tier 2 bet on a professional sports event of the league governed by the sports governing body.

C. Within 60 days after the Director notifies each permit holder as required under subsection B, permit holders shall use only official league data to determine the results of tier 2 bets on professional sports events of the league governed by the sports governing body, unless any of the following apply:

1. The sports governing body is unable to provide a feed, on commercially reasonable terms, of official league data to determine the results of a tier 2 bets, in which case permit holders may use any data source for determining the results of tier 2 bets until the data feed becomes available on commercially reasonable terms.

2. A permit holder demonstrates to the Department that the sports governing body has not provided or offered to provide a feed of official league data to such permit holder on commercially reasonable terms, according to criteria identified in subsection D.

D. The Director shall consider the following information in determining whether a sports governing body has provided or offered to provide a feed of official league data on commercially reasonable terms:

1. The availability of a sports governing body's official league data for tier 2 bets from more than one authorized source;

2. Market information regarding the purchase, in Virginia and in other states, by permit holders of data from all authorized sources;

3. The nature and quantity of the data, including the quality and complexity of the process used for collecting the data; and

4. Any other information the Director deems relevant.

E. During any time period in which the Director is determining whether official league data is available on commercially reasonable terms pursuant to the provisions of subsections C and D, a permit holder may use any data source for determining the results of any tier 2 bets. The Director shall make a determination under subsections C and D within 120 days after a permit holder notifies the Department that it desires to demonstrate that a sports governing body has not provided or offered to provide a feed of official league data to the permit holder on commercially reasonable terms.

2020, cc. [1218](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1218), [1256](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1256).

