# § 58.1-363 Share of a nonresident estate, trust, or beneficiary in income from Virginia sources.

A. The share of a nonresident estate or trust under § [58.1-362](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-362/) and the share of a nonresident beneficiary of any estate or trust under provisions otherwise applicable to nonresident individuals in estate or trust income or loss attributable to Virginia sources shall be determined as follows:

1. There shall be determined the items of income, gain, loss and deduction derived from Virginia sources, which enter into the computation of distributable net income of the estate or trust for the taxable year (including such items from another estate or trust of which the first estate or trust is a beneficiary).

2. There shall be added or subtracted (as the case may be) the modifications described in §§ [58.1-322.01](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-322.01/), [58.1-322.02](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-322.02/), [58.1-322.03](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-322.03/), and [58.1-322.04](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-322.04/) to the extent relating to items of income, gain, loss and deduction derived from Virginia sources which enter into the computation of distributable net income (including all such items from another estate or trust of which the first estate or trust is a beneficiary). No modification shall be made under this subsection which has the effect of duplicating an item already reflected in the computation of distributable net income.

3. The amounts determined under subdivisions 1 and 2 shall be allocated among the estate or trust and its beneficiaries (including, solely for the purposes of this allocation, resident beneficiaries) in proportion to their respective shares of distributable net income. The amounts so allocated shall have the same character under this article as under the laws of the United States relating to federal income taxes. Where an item entering into the computation of such amounts is not characterized by such laws, it shall have the same character as if realized directly from the source from which realized by the estate or trust, or incurred in the same manner as incurred by the estate or trust.

B. If the estate or trust has no distributable net income for the taxable year, the share of each beneficiary (including, solely for the purpose of such allocation, resident beneficiaries) in the net amount determined under subdivisions A 1 and 2 shall be in proportion to his share of the estate or trust income for such year, under local law or the governing instrument, which is required to be distributed currently and any other amounts of such income distributed in such year. Any balance of such net amount shall be allocated to the estate or trust.

Code 1950, § 58-151.025; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 171; 1984, c. 675; 2017, c. [444](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0444).

