# ยง 58.1-3220 Partial exemption for certain rehabilitated, renovated or replacement residential structures.

A. The governing body of any county, city or town may, by ordinance, provide for the partial exemption from taxation of real estate on which any structure or other improvement no less than 15 years of age has undergone substantial rehabilitation, renovation or replacement for residential use, subject to such conditions as the ordinance may prescribe. The ordinance may, in addition to any other restrictions hereinafter provided, restrict such exemptions to real property located within described zones or districts whose boundaries shall be determined by the governing body. The governing body of a county, city or town may (i) establish criteria for determining whether real estate qualifies for the partial exemption authorized by this provision, (ii) require such structures to be older than 15 years of age, (iii) establish requirements for the square footage of replacement structures, and (iv) place such other restrictions and conditions on such property as may be prescribed by ordinance. Such ordinance may also provide for the partial exemption from taxation of multifamily residential units that have been substantially rehabilitated by replacement for multifamily use.

B. The partial exemption provided by the local governing body may be an amount equal to the increase in assessed value or a percentage of such increase resulting from the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement of the structure as determined by the commissioner of revenue or other local assessing officer or an amount up to 50 percent of the cost of the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement, as determined by ordinance. The exemption may commence upon completion of the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement or on January 1 of the year following completion of the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement and shall run with the real estate for a period of no longer than 15 years. The governing body of a county, city or town may place a shorter time limitation on the length of such exemption, or reduce the amount of the exemption in annual steps over the entire period or a portion thereof, in such manner as the ordinance may prescribe.

C. The local governing body or its designee shall provide written notification to the property owner of the amount of the assessment of the property that will be exempt from real property taxation and the period of such exemption. Such exempt amount shall be a covenant that runs with the land for the period of the exemption and shall not be reduced by the local governing body or its designee during the period of the exemption, unless the local governing body or its designee by written notice has advised the property owner at the initial time of approval of the exemption that the exempt amount may be decreased during the period of such exemption. In no event, however, shall such partial exemption result in totally exempting the value of the structure.

D. Nothing in this section shall be construed as to permit the commissioner of the revenue to list upon the land book any reduced value due to the exemption provided in subsection B.

E. The governing body of any county, city or town may assess a fee not to exceed $125 for residential properties, or $250 for commercial, industrial, and/or apartment properties of six units or more for processing an application requesting the exemption provided by this section. No property shall be eligible for such exemption unless the appropriate building permits have been acquired and the commissioner of the revenue or assessing officer has verified that the rehabilitation, renovation or replacement indicated on the application has been completed.

F. Where rehabilitation is achieved through demolition and replacement of an existing structure, the exemption provided in subsection A shall not apply when any structure demolished is a registered Virginia landmark or is determined by the Department of Historic Resources to contribute to the significance of a registered historic district.

Code 1950, ยง 58-760.2; 1979, c. 195; 1980, c. 417; 1981, c. 625; 1984, cc. 675, 750; 1986, c. 271; 1989, cc. 89, 656; 1994, cc. [424](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0424), [435](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0435); 1995, c. [673](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0673); 2001, c. [489](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0489); 2002, cc. [21](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0021), [144](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0144); 2011, cc. [423](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0423), [460](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0460).

