# ยง 58.1-3132 How warrants paid; receivable for levies.

No treasurer shall refuse to pay any warrant legally drawn upon him and presented for payment for the reason that a warrant of prior presentation has not been paid, when there is appropriated money in the treasury belonging to the fund drawn upon available and sufficient to pay such prior warrant and also the warrant so presented. However, such treasurer shall, as he may receive money into the treasury belonging to the fund so drawn upon, set such money apart for the payment of warrants previously presented and in the order presented. He shall receive, in payment of the county or city levy, any county or city warrant drawn in favor of any taxpayer, whether such warrant has been entered in the treasurer's book or not. However, if the warrant has been transferred it shall be subject to any county or city levy owing by the taxpayer in whose favor the warrant was issued. When the warrant is for a larger sum than such levy due from the payee or transferee of the warrant, the treasurer shall endorse on the warrant a credit for the amount of the levy so due and such payee or transferee shall execute to the treasurer a receipt for such amount, specifying the number and date of the warrant on which it was credited. The residue of the warrant shall be paid according to the order of its entry in the treasurer's book. Copies of all appropriations, and ordinances and resolutions appropriating funds by the governing body, shall be delivered to the treasurer by the clerk of the governing body.

Code 1950, ยง 58-921; 1959, Ex. Sess., c. 51; 1984, c. 675.

