# § 58.1-816 (Contingent effective date — see Acts 2020, cc. 1241 and 1281) Distribution of recordation tax to cities and counties.

A. Effective October 1, 1993, $20 million of the taxes imposed under §§ [58.1-801](/vacode/58.1-801/) through [58.1-809](/vacode/58.1-809/) that are actually paid into the state treasury, shall be distributed among the counties and cities of the Commonwealth, except for counties and cities located in Planning District 8, in the manner provided in subsection B. Effective July 1, 1994, such annual distribution shall increase to $40 million. Effective July 1, 2020, such annual distribution shall be $20 million.

B. Subject to any transfer required under § [58.1-816.1](/vacode/58.1-816.1/), the share of the state taxes distributable under this section among the counties and cities shall be apportioned and distributed quarterly to each county or city by the Comptroller by multiplying the amount to be distributed by a fraction in which the numerator is the amount of the taxes imposed under §§ [58.1-801](/vacode/58.1-801/) through [58.1-809](/vacode/58.1-809/) and actually paid into the state treasury which are attributable to deeds and other instruments recorded in the county or city and the denominator is the amount of taxes imposed under §§ [58.1-801](/vacode/58.1-801/) through [58.1-809](/vacode/58.1-809/) actually paid into the state treasury. All distributions pursuant to this section shall be made on a quarterly basis within 30 days of the end of the quarter. Such quarterly distribution shall equal $10 million. Each clerk of the court shall certify to the Comptroller, within 15 days after the end of the quarter, all amounts collected under §§ [58.1-801](/vacode/58.1-801/) through [58.1-809](/vacode/58.1-809/) and actually paid into the state treasury which are attributable to deeds and other instruments recorded in such county or city.

C. All moneys distributed to counties and cities pursuant to this section shall be used for (i) transportation purposes, including, without limitation, construction, administration, operation, improvement, maintenance and financing of transportation facilities, or (ii) public education.

As used in this section, the term "transportation facilities" shall include all transportation-related facilities including, but not limited to, all highway systems, public transportation or mass transit systems as defined in § [33.2-100](/vacode/33.2-100/), airports as defined in § [5.1-1](/vacode/5.1-1/), and port facilities as defined in § [62.1-140](/vacode/62.1-140/). Such term shall be liberally construed for purposes of this section.

D. If any revenues distributed to a county or city under subsection C are applied or expended for any transportation facilities under the control and jurisdiction of any state agency, board, commission or authority, such transportation facilities shall be constructed, operated, administered, improved and maintained in accordance with laws, rules, regulations, policies and procedures governing such state agency, board, commission or authority; however, in the event these revenues, or a portion thereof, are expended for improving or constructing highways in a county which is subject to the provisions of § [33.2-338](/vacode/33.2-338/), such expenditures shall be undertaken in the manner prescribed in that statute.

E. In the case of any distribution to a county or city in which an office sharing agreement pursuant to §§ [15.2-1637](/vacode/15.2-1637/) and [15.2-3822](/vacode/15.2-3822/) is in effect, the Comptroller shall divide the distribution among the office sharing counties and cities. Each clerk of the court acting pursuant to an office sharing agreement shall certify to the Comptroller, within 15 days after the end of the quarter, all amounts collected under §§ [58.1-801](/vacode/58.1-801/) through [58.1-809](/vacode/58.1-809/) and actually paid into the state treasury which are attributable to deeds and other instruments recorded on behalf of each county and city.

1989, c. 713; 1990, c. 821; 1993, c. 391; 2020, cc. [1230](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230), [1275](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275).

