# ยง 58.1-1011 Qualification for permit to affix Virginia revenue stamps; penalty.

A. Only manufacturers, wholesale dealers and retail dealers may be permitted as stamping agents. It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase, possess or affix Virginia revenue stamps without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Department. Every manufacturer, wholesale dealer or retail dealer who desires to qualify as a stamping agent with the Department shall make application to the Department on forms prescribed for this purpose, which shall be supplied upon request. The application forms will require such information relative to the nature of business engaged in by the applicant as the Department deems necessary to the qualifying of the applicant as a stamping agent. The Department shall conduct a background investigation, to include a Virginia Criminal History Records search, and fingerprints of the applicant, or its responsible principals, managers, and other persons engaged in handling and stamping cigarettes at the licensable locations, that shall be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation if the Department determines a National Criminal Records search is necessary, on applicants for licensure as cigarette tax stamping agents. The Department may refuse to issue a stamping permit or may suspend, revoke or refuse to renew a stamping permit issued to any person, partnership, corporation, limited liability company or business trust, if it determines that any principal, manager, or other persons engaged in handling and stamping cigarettes at the licensable location of the applicant has been (i) found guilty of any fraud or misrepresentation in any connection, (ii) convicted of robbery, extortion, burglary, larceny, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, gambling, perjury, bribery, treason, or racketeering, or (iii) convicted of a felony. Anyone who knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or misrepresents a material fact or knowingly and willfully makes a false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation in any application for a stamping permit to the Department is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The Department may establish an application or renewal fee not to exceed $750 to be retained by the Department to be applied to the administrative and other costs of processing stamping agent applications, conducting background investigations and issuing stamping permits. Any application or renewal fees collected pursuant to this section in excess of such costs as of June 30 in even-numbered years shall be reported to the State Treasurer and deposited into the state treasury. If the Department after review of his application believes the manufacturer, wholesale dealer or retail dealer is qualified, the Department shall issue to the applicant a permit qualifying him as a stamping agent, as defined in this chapter, and he shall be allowed the discount on purchases of Virginia revenue stamps as set out herein for stamping agents purchasing stamps for their individual use. Such stamping agent shall be authorized to affix Virginia revenue stamps, and in addition, if the applicant qualifies as a wholesale dealer, that shall be so noted on the permit issued by the Department. Permits issued pursuant to this section shall be valid for a period of three years from the date of issue unless revoked by the Department in the manner provided herein. The Department shall not sell Virginia revenue stamps to any person or entity unless and until the Department has issued that person or entity a permit to affix Virginia revenue stamps. The Department may promulgate regulations governing the issuance, suspension and revocation of stamping agent permits. The Department may at any time revoke the permit issued to any stamping agent as herein provided who is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the rules of the Department adopted and promulgated under authority of this chapter.

B. The Department shall compile and maintain a list of licensed cigarette stamping agents. The list shall be updated monthly and shall be available upon request to any federal, state, or local law-enforcement agency.

Code 1950, ยง 58-757.10; 1960, c. 392, ยง 10; 1984, c. 675; 2004, c. [1029](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1029); 2005, c. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0028); 2016, cc. [227](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0227), [344](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0344).

