# ยง 58.1-3712 Counties and cities authorized to levy severance tax on gases.

A. The governing body of any county or city may levy a license tax on every person engaging in the business of severing gases from the earth. Such tax shall be at a rate not to exceed one percent of the gross receipts from the sale of gases severed within such county. Such gross receipts shall be the fair market value measured at the time such gases are utilized or sold for utilization in such county or city or at the time they are placed in transit for shipment therefrom, provided that if the tax provided herein is levied, such county or city cannot enact the provisions of ยง [58.1-3286](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3286/) relating to a tax on gross receipts. In calculating the fair market value, no person engaging in the production and operation of severing gases from the earth in connection with coal mining shall be allowed to take deductions, including but not limited to, depreciation, compression, marketing fees, overhead, maintenance, transportation fees, and personal property taxes.

B. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or law, for purposes of calculating the fair market value of gases severed in Buchanan County, except as otherwise provided in a settlement agreement regarding the calculation of fair market value, including deductions for transportation and compression costs, between the County and the taxpayer, no person engaging in the production and operation of severing gases from the earth in connection with coal mining shall be allowed to take deductions, including but not limited to, depreciation, compression, marketing fees, overhead, maintenance, transportation fees, and personal property taxes.

C. Any county or city enacting a license tax under this section may require producers of gas and common carriers to maintain records and file reports showing the quantities of and receipts from gases which they have produced or transported.

D. The commissioner of the revenue of any county or city is authorized to enter into agreements with any taxpayer pertaining to the calculation of the fair market value of gases under this section. All such agreements entered into on or after January 1, 2013, but prior to July 1, 2014, between the commissioner of the revenue of any county or city and any taxpayer are deemed bona fide and are valid and enforceable.

Code 1950, ยง 58-266.1:1; 1973, c. 522; 1976, c. 53; 1984, c. 675; 2002, c. [433](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0433); 2009, c. [770](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0770); 2013, cc. [305](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0305), [618](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0618); 2014, cc. [48](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0048), [179](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0179).

