# § 58.1-603.2 (For contingent expiration date, see Acts 2018, c. 850) Additional state sales and use tax in certain counties and cities of historic significance; Historic Triangle Marketing Fund.

A. For purposes of this section:

"Historic Triangle" means all of the City of Williamsburg and the Counties of James City and York.

"Historic Triangle Recreational Facilities Authority" means a regional government entity created by the City of Williamsburg and the Counties of James City and York for the purpose of developing and managing recreational facilities for the benefit of such localities' residents and visitors.

B. In addition to the sales tax imposed pursuant to §§ [58.1-603](/vacode/58.1-603/) and [58.1-603.1](/vacode/58.1-603.1/), there is hereby levied and imposed in the Historic Triangle a retail sales tax at the rate of one percent. Such tax shall not be levied upon food purchased for human consumption and essential personal hygiene products, as such terms are defined in § [58.1-611.1](/vacode/58.1-611.1/). Such tax shall be added to the rate of the state sales tax imposed pursuant to §§ [58.1-603](/vacode/58.1-603/) and [58.1-603.1](/vacode/58.1-603.1/) in each such county and city and shall be subject to all the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations published with respect thereto. No discount under § [58.1-622](/vacode/58.1-622/) shall be allowed for the tax imposed under this section. Such tax shall be administered and collected by the Tax Commissioner in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as provided for the state sales tax under § [58.1-603](/vacode/58.1-603/).

C. In addition to the use tax imposed pursuant to §§ [58.1-604](/vacode/58.1-604/) and [58.1-604.01](/vacode/58.1-604.01/), there is hereby levied and imposed in the Historic Triangle a retail use tax at the rate of one percent. Such tax shall not be levied upon food purchased for human consumption and essential personal hygiene products, as such terms are defined in § [58.1-611.1](/vacode/58.1-611.1/). Such tax shall be added to the rate of the state use tax imposed pursuant to §§ [58.1-604](/vacode/58.1-604/) and [58.1-604.01](/vacode/58.1-604.01/) in each such county and city and shall be subject to all the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations published with respect thereto. No discount under § [58.1-622](/vacode/58.1-622/) shall be allowed for the tax imposed under this section. Such tax shall be administered and collected by the Tax Commissioner in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as provided for the state use tax under § [58.1-604](/vacode/58.1-604/).

D. The revenue generated and collected pursuant to the tax authorized under this section, less the applicable portion of any refunds to taxpayers, shall be deposited by the Comptroller as follows:

1. Fifty percent of the revenues shall be deposited into the Historic Triangle Marketing Fund created pursuant to subsection F and used for the purposes set forth therein; and

2. Fifty percent of the revenues shall be deposited into a special fund hereby created on the books of the Comptroller under the name "Collections of Historic Triangle Sales Tax" and distributed to the locality in which the sales or use tax was collected. The revenues received by a locality pursuant to this subsection shall not be used to reduce the funding dedicated by the recipient localities to regional tourism promotion and product development.

E. 1. The revenues received by a locality pursuant to subsection D shall not be used to reduce such locality's funding dedicated to regional tourism promotion and product development. In meeting the requirements of this subsection, each locality shall annually allocate the following minimum amounts, to be distributed as provided in subdivision 2:

a. The City of Williamsburg shall allocate at least $800,000;

b. James City County shall allocate at least $740,000; and

c. York County shall allocate at least $438,600.

2. As determined by agreement among the City of Williamsburg and the Counties of James City and York, the amounts allocated under subdivision 1 shall be appropriated so that each of the recipients identified in this subdivision receive the following minimum amounts:

a. The Williamsburg Tourism Council shall receive at least $126,600;

b. The Greater Williamsburg Chamber of Commerce shall receive at least $402,000; and

c. The Historic Triangle Recreational Facilities Authority shall receive at least $1,450,000.

F. 1. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Historic Triangle Marketing Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund," to be managed and administered by the Williamsburg Tourism Council. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All revenues generated pursuant to this section shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of marketing, advertising, and promoting the Historic Triangle area as an overnight tourism destination, with the intent to attract visitors from a sufficient distance so as to require an overnight stay of at least one night, as set forth in this subsection. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Secretary of Finance.

2. The Williamsburg Tourism Council (the Council) is established as an advisory board in the legislative branch of state government. The Council shall consist of members as follows: one member of the James City County Board of Supervisors, one member of the York County Board of Supervisors; one member of the Williamsburg City Council, one representative of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, one representative of the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation, one representative of Busch Gardens Williamsburg, one representative of the Jamestown Rediscovery Foundation, one representative of the Williamsburg Hotel and Motel Association, and one representative of the Williamsburg Area Restaurant Association. The Chair of the Greater Williamsburg Chamber of Commerce and the Chief Executive Officer of the Virginia Tourism Corporation shall serve as ex officio, nonvoting members of the Council.

3. The Council shall establish the Historic Triangle Office of Marketing and Promotion (the Office) to administer a program of marketing, advertising, and promotion to attract visitors to the Historic Triangle area, as required by this subsection. The Council shall use moneys in the Fund to fund the pay for necessary expenses of the Office and to fund the activities of the Office. The Office shall be overseen by a professional with extensive experience in marketing or advertising and in the tourism industry. The Office shall be responsible for (i) developing and implementing, in consultation with the Council, long-term and short-term strategic plans for advertising and promoting the numerous facilities, venues, and attractions devoted to education, historic preservation, amusement, entertainment, and dining in the Historic Triangle as a cohesive and unified travel destination for local, national, and international travelers; (ii) assisting, upon request, with the coordination of cross-advertising and cross-marketing efforts between various tourism venues and destinations in the Historic Triangle region; (iii) identifying strategies for both increasing the number of overnight visitors to the region and increasing the average length of stay of tourists in the region; and (iv) performing any other function related to the promotion of the Historic Triangle region as may be identified by the Council.

4. The Council shall report annually on its long-term and short-term strategic plans and the implementation of such plans; marketing efforts; metrics regarding tourism in the Historic Triangle region; use of the funds in the Fund; and any other details relevant to the work of the Council and the Office. Such report shall be delivered no later than December 1 of each year to the managers or chief executive officers of the City of Williamsburg and the Counties of James City and York, and to the Chairmen of the House Committees on Finance and Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations.

2018, c. [850](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0850); 2019, cc. [549](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0549), [550](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0550); 2022, c. [652](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0652).

