# ยง 58.1-2209 Supplier election to collect tax on out-of-state removals.

A. An applicant for a license as a supplier may elect on the application to collect the tax due the Commonwealth on motor fuel that is removed at a terminal located in another state and has Virginia as its destination state. The Commissioner shall provide for this election on the application form. A supplier who makes the election allowed by this section shall be an elective supplier. A supplier who does not make the election allowed by this section shall be an in-state-only supplier. A supplier who does not make the election on the application for a supplier's license may make the election later by completing an election form provided by the Commissioner. A supplier who has not made the election shall not act as an elective supplier for purposes of this chapter.

B. A supplier who makes the election allowed by this section shall comply with all of the following with respect to motor fuel that is removed at a terminal located in another state and has Virginia as its destination state:

1. Collect the tax due the Commonwealth on the fuel;

2. Waive any defense that the Commonwealth lacks jurisdiction to require the supplier to collect the tax due the Commonwealth on the fuel under this chapter;

3. Report and pay the tax due on the fuel in the same manner as if the removal had occurred at a terminal located in Virginia;

4. Keep records of the removal of the fuel and submit to audits concerning the fuel as if the removal had occurred at a terminal located in Virginia; and

5. Report sales by the supplier to a person who is not licensed in the state where the removal occurred if the destination state is Virginia.

C. A supplier who makes the election allowed by this section (i) acknowledges that the Commonwealth imposes the requirements listed in subsection B of this section on the supplier under its general police power and (ii) submits to the jurisdiction of the Commonwealth only for purposes related to the administration of this chapter.

2000, cc. [729](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729), [758](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758).

