# ยง 58.1-802.5 (For contingent expiration, see Acts 2020, cc. 1241 and 1281) Regional transportation improvement fee.

In addition to any other tax or fee imposed under the provisions of this chapter, a fee, delineated as the "regional transportation improvement fee," is hereby imposed on each deed, instrument, or writing by which lands, tenements, or other realty located in a county or city located in a transportation district in Hampton Roads created pursuant to ยง [33.2-1903](/vacode/33.2-1903/) is sold and is granted, assigned, transferred, or otherwise conveyed to or vested in the purchaser or any other person, by such purchaser's direction. The rate of the fee, when the consideration or value of the interest, whichever is greater, equals or exceeds $100, shall be $0.06 for each $100 or fraction thereof, exclusive of the value of any lien or encumbrance remaining thereon at the time of the sale, whether such lien is assumed or the realty is sold subject to such lien or encumbrance.

The fee imposed by this section shall be paid by the grantor, or any person who signs on behalf of the grantor, of any deed, instrument, or writing subject to the fee imposed by this section; however, the grantor and grantee may arrange for the grantee to pay all or a portion of the fee.

No such deed, instrument, or other writing shall be admitted to record unless certification of the clerk wherein first recorded has been affixed thereto that the fee imposed pursuant to this section has been paid.

Fees imposed by this section shall be collected by the clerk of the court and deposited into the state treasury as soon as practicable. Such fees shall then be deposited into the Regional Transit Fund established in ยง [33.2-2600.1](/vacode/33.2-2600.1/).

2020, cc. [1241](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1241), [1281](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1281), ยง 58.1-802.4.

