# ยง 58.1-2232 Notice of cancellation or reissuance of licenses; effect of notice.

A. If the Commissioner cancels the license of a distributor, importer, or aviation consumer, the Commissioner shall notify all suppliers of the cancellation. If the Commissioner issues a license to a distributor, importer or aviation consumer whose license was previously canceled, the Commissioner shall notify all suppliers of the issuance.

B. A supplier who sells motor fuel to a distributor, importer or aviation consumer after receiving notice from the Commissioner that the Commissioner has canceled the distributor's, importer's or aviation consumer's license shall be jointly and severally liable with the distributor, importer or aviation consumer for any tax due on motor fuel the supplier sells to the distributor, importer or aviation consumer after receiving the notice; however, the supplier shall not be liable for tax due on motor fuel sold to a previously unlicensed distributor, importer or aviation consumer after the supplier receives notice from the Commissioner that the Commissioner has issued another license to the distributor, importer or aviation consumer.

C. If the Commissioner cancels the license of a supplier, the Commissioner shall notify all licensed distributors, exporters, importers and aviation consumers of the cancellation. If the Commissioner issues a license to a supplier whose license was previously canceled, the Commissioner shall notify all licensed distributors, exporters, importers and aviation consumers of the issuance.

D. A licensed distributor, exporter, importer, or aviation consumer who purchases motor fuel from a supplier after receiving notice from the Commissioner that the Commissioner has canceled the supplier's license shall be jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any tax due on motor fuel purchased from the supplier after receiving the notice; however, the licensed distributor, exporter, importer, or aviation consumer shall not be liable for tax due on motor fuel purchased from a previously unlicensed supplier after the licensee receives notice from the Commissioner that the Commissioner has issued another license to the supplier.

2000, cc. [729](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729), [758](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758); 2002, c. [7](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0007).

