# ยง 58.1-618 Assessment based on estimate.

A. If any dealer fails to make a return as provided by this chapter, or a return that is false or fraudulent, it shall be the duty of the Tax Commissioner to make an estimate for the taxable period of the retail sales or distributions of such dealer, or of the gross proceeds from leases of tangible personal property, or taxable services by such dealer, or the cost price of all articles of tangible personal property imported by such dealer for use or consumption in the Commonwealth, or storage by such dealer of tangible personal property to be used or consumed in the Commonwealth, and assess the tax, plus such penalties as are provided in this chapter. The Tax Commissioner shall give such dealer ten days' notice in writing requiring such dealer to appear before him with such books, records, and papers as he may require relating to the business of such dealer for such taxable period. The Tax Commissioner may require such dealer or the agents and employees of such dealer to give testimony or to answer interrogatories under oath administered by the Tax Commissioner respecting such sale, distribution, lease, use, consumption, or storage of tangible personal property, or taxable services, or the failure to make a return thereof as provided in this chapter. If any dealer fails to make any such return or refuses to permit an examination of his books, records, or papers, or to appear and answer questions within the scope of such investigation, the Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to make the assessment based upon such information as may be available to him and to issue a memorandum of lien under ยง [58.1-1805](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1805/) for the collection of any such taxes and penalties so found to be due. The assessment so made shall be deemed prima facie correct.

B. If the dealer has imported tangible personal property and fails to produce an invoice showing the sales price of the articles, or the invoice does not reflect the true or actual sales price as defined in this chapter, then the Tax Commissioner shall ascertain, in any manner feasible, the true sales price and assess and collect the tax, with penalties, to the extent such have accrued, on the true sales price as ascertained by him. The assessment so made shall be deemed prima facie correct.

C. In the case of the lease of tangible personal property, if the consideration given or reported by the dealer, in the judgment of the Tax Commissioner, does not represent the true or actual consideration, then the Tax Commissioner is authorized to fix the same and assess and collect the tax thereon in the same manner as above provided, with penalties to the extent such have accrued. The assessment so made shall be deemed prima facie correct.

Code 1950, ยง 58-441.28; 1966, c. 151; 1984, c. 675; 1985, c. 221.

