# § 58.1-1110 Where to file return; duty of the commissioner of revenue; audit and assessment.

A. Every person subject to taxation pursuant to this chapter shall file his return with the commissioner of the revenue for the county or city in which he maintains his domicile, if he is domiciled in this Commonwealth. If he is not domiciled in this Commonwealth, he shall file the return with the commissioner of the revenue for the county or city in which his business, or the major part thereof, is conducted. An unincorporated company subject to such taxation shall file a return with the commissioner of the revenue for the county or city in which its business, or the major part thereof, is conducted. A corporation owning taxable intangible personal property shall file a return with the commissioner of the revenue for the county or city in which the registered office of the corporation is located. It shall be the duty of each commissioner of the revenue to obtain a return of intangible personal property from every such taxpayer within his jurisdiction who is liable to file a return with him.

B. Each commissioner of the revenue shall audit returns of taxpayers as soon as practicable after they are made to him and shall assess the amount of taxes, or the amount of additional taxes, as the case may be, which appears to be due. The auditing of such returns shall not be done in any manner or at a time that will result in a delay on the part of the commissioner of the revenue in complying with §§ [58.1-1116](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1116/) and [58.1-1117](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1117/).

Code 1950, §§ 58-427, 58-429, 58-430, 58-431; 1956, c. 439; 1960, c. 508; 1984, c. 675.

