# § 58.1-1609 Payment, collection, and disposition of tax.

A. All taxes collected by the Department pursuant to § [58.1-1604](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1604/) shall be paid into the state treasury. The Comptroller shall credit as special revenues, to the "Reforestation of Timberlands State Fund" of the Department of Forestry the following amounts on forest products of pine:

1. One dollar per 1,000 board feet measure on lumber; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

2. One dollar per 1,000 board feet log scale, International 1/4" Kerf Rule, on logs not converted into lumber or other products in this Commonwealth; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

3. One dollar per 1,000 board feet log scale, International 1/4" Kerf Rule, on logs to be converted into veneer; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

4. Forty cents per standard cord on pulpwood, excelsior wood, chemical wood, bolts or billets, fuel wood, tanbark, and other products customarily sold by the standard cord; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

5. Eighty-three hundredths cent per 100 pounds of chips manufactured from roundwood;

6. Three and three-tenths cents per piece on railroad crossties; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

7. On posts, mine ties, mine props, round mine collars, and other types of timber used with mining and ordinarily sold by the piece:

a. Thirty-two cents where each piece is four feet or less in length;

b. Fifty-two cents where each piece is more than four feet but not over eight feet in length;

c. Sixty-four cents where each piece is more than eight feet in length;

d. Eighty-eight cents per 1,000 lineal feet where sold on the lineal feet basis; or

e. At the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

8. Two and two-hundredths percent of invoice value f.o.b. loading out point on piling and poles; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received;

9. Three and three-tenths cents per standard 400-inch bundle of keg staves; or 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton when the taxpayer has elected to pay tax on the basis of weight of logs received;

10. Ten cents per 100 on keg heads; or at the election of the taxpayer, 17 4/10 cent(s) per ton of logs received; and

11. A proportionate amount between total tax paid per item as specified in § [58.1-1604](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-1604/) and the rate per item above set forth on any other type of forest product not herein enumerated.

B. All special revenues deposited into the "Reforestation of Timberlands State Fund" shall be used for the sole purpose of reforesting privately owned timberlands in the Commonwealth as provided in Article 10 (§ [10.1-1170](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1170/) et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 10.1. No portion of the revenues shall revert to the general fund of the Commonwealth at the end of any fiscal year.

C. The remainder of the tax shall be cited by the Comptroller, as special revenues, to the "Protection and Development of Forest Resources of the State Fund" of the Department of Forestry for expenditure for the protection and development of the forest resources in accordance with law. Such funds shall be used for the sole purpose of raising, planting, and propagating seedling trees, both hardwood and softwood, forest fire protection, forestry education of the public in the use of forest harvesting methods, and rendering forestry service to the timber landowners of the Commonwealth. No portion of such special revenues shall revert to the general fund of the Commonwealth at the end of any fiscal year.

D. The Tax Commissioner shall apportion the cost of collecting taxes deposited in the "Reforestation of Timberlands State Fund" and the "Protection and Development of Forest Resources State Fund" based on the proportion of the tax deposited in each fund. Each fund shall pay to the Department of Taxation its apportioned collection cost.

Code 1950, § 58-838.7:1; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 179; 1978, c. 72; 1981, c. 372; 1984, cc. 675, 750; 1986, c. 567; 1998, c. [420](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0420).

