# ยง 58.1-3239 State Land Evaluation Advisory Committee continued as State Land Evaluation Advisory Council; membership; duties; ordinances to be filed with Council.

The State Land Evaluation Advisory Committee is continued and shall hereafter be known as the State Land Evaluation Advisory Council. The Advisory Council shall be composed of the Tax Commissioner, the dean of the College of Agriculture of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, the State Forester, the Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services and the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation.

The Advisory Council shall determine and publish a range of suggested values for each of the several soil conservation service land capability classifications for agricultural, horticultural, forest and open space uses in the various areas of the Commonwealth as needed to carry out the provisions of this article.

On or before October 1 of each year the Advisory Council shall submit recommended ranges of suggested values to be effective the following January 1 or July 1 in the case of localities with fiscal year assessment under the authority of Chapter 30 of this subtitle, within each locality which has adopted an ordinance pursuant to the provisions of this article based on the productive earning power of real estate devoted to agricultural, horticultural, forest and open space uses and make such recommended ranges available to the commissioner of the revenue or duly appointed assessor in each such locality.

The Advisory Council, in determining such ranges of values, shall base the determination on productive earning power to be determined by capitalization of warranted cash rents or by the capitalization of incomes of like real estate in the locality or a reasonable area of the locality.

Any locality adopting an ordinance pursuant to this article shall forthwith file a copy thereof with the Advisory Council.

Code 1950, ยง 58-769.11; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 172; 1976, c. 55; 1979, c. 152; 1984, cc. 675, 739, 750; 1985, c. 448; 1987, c. 550; 1989, c. 656.

