# § 58.1-1000 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context clearly shows otherwise, the term or phrase:

"Authorized holder" means (i) a manufacturer; (ii) a wholesale dealer who is not duly qualified as a wholesale dealer stamping agent, but who possesses, or whose affiliate possesses, a valid cigarette exemption certificate issued pursuant to § [58.1-623.2](/vacode/58.1-623.2/); (iii) a stamping agent; (iv) a retail dealer who possesses, or whose affiliate possesses, a valid cigarette exemption certificate issued pursuant to § [58.1-623.2](/vacode/58.1-623.2/); (v) an exclusive distributor; (vi) an officer, employee, or other agent of the United States or a state, or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, a state, or a political subdivision of a state, having possession of cigarettes in connection with the performance of official duties; (vii) a person properly holding cigarettes that do not require stamps or tax payment pursuant to § [58.1-1010](/vacode/58.1-1010/); or (viii) a common or contract carrier transporting cigarettes under a proper bill of lading or other documentation indicating the true name and address of the consignor or seller and the consignee or purchaser of the brands and the quantities being transported. Any person convicted of (a) any criminal offense under this chapter; (b) any offense involving the forgery of any documents, forms, invoices, or receipts related to the purchase or sale of cigarettes or the purchase or sale of tobacco products as defined in § [58.1-1021.01](/vacode/58.1-1021.01/); (c) any offense involving evasion or failure to pay a cigarette or tobacco product excise tax; or (d) any similar violation of an ordinance of any county, city, or town in the Commonwealth or the laws of any other state or of the United States is ineligible to be an authorized holder. For the purposes of this definition, "affiliate" means any entity that is a member of the same affiliated group, as such term is defined in § [58.1-3700.1](/vacode/58.1-3700.1/).

"Carton" means 10 packs of cigarettes, each containing 20 cigarettes or eight packs, each containing 25 cigarettes.

"Cigarette" means any product that contains nicotine, is intended to be burned and produces smoke from combustion under ordinary conditions of use, and consists of or contains (i) any roll of tobacco wrapped in paper or in any substance not containing tobacco; (ii) tobacco, in any form, that is burned and functional in the product, which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette; or (iii) any roll of tobacco wrapped in any substance containing tobacco which, because of its appearance, the type of tobacco used in the filler, or its packaging and labeling, is likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as a cigarette described in clause (i) of this definition. The term "cigarette" includes "roll-your-own" tobacco, which means any tobacco which, because of its appearance, type, packaging, or labeling, is suitable for use and likely to be offered to, or purchased by, consumers as tobacco for making cigarettes. For purposes of this definition of "cigarette," 0.09 ounces of "roll-your-own" tobacco shall constitute one individual "cigarette."

"Exclusive distributor" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, or limited liability partnership with its principal place of business in the Commonwealth that has the sole and exclusive rights to sell to wholesale dealers in the Commonwealth a brand family of cigarettes manufactured by a tobacco product manufacturer as defined in § [3.2-4200](/vacode/3.2-4200/).

"Manufacturer" means any tobacco product manufacturer as defined in § [3.2-4200](/vacode/3.2-4200/).

"Pack" means a package containing either 20 or 25 cigarettes.

"Retail dealer" includes every person other than a wholesale dealer, as defined in this section, who sells or offers for sale any cigarettes and who is properly registered as a retail trade with the Commonwealth in accordance with the Virginia Department of Taxation Business Registration Application (Form R-1).

"Retail sale" or "sale at retail" includes all sales except sales by wholesale dealers to retail dealers or other wholesale dealers for resale.

"Stamping agent" has the same meaning as provided in § [3.2-4204](/vacode/3.2-4204/). For the purposes of provisions relating to "roll-your-own" tobacco, "stamping agent" includes "distributor" as that term is defined in § [58.1-1021.01](/vacode/58.1-1021.01/).

"Stamps" means the stamp or stamps by the use of which the tax levied under this chapter is paid and shall be officially designated as Virginia revenue stamps. The Department is hereby authorized to provide for the use of any type of stamp that will effectuate the purposes of this chapter, including but not limited to decalcomania and metering devices.

"Storage" means any keeping or retention in the Commonwealth of cigarettes for any purpose except sale in the regular course of business or subsequent use solely outside the Commonwealth.

"Tax-paid cigarettes" means cigarettes that (i) bear valid Virginia stamps to evidence payment of excise taxes or (ii) were purchased outside of the Commonwealth and either (a) bear a valid tax stamp for the state in which the cigarettes were purchased or (b) when no tax stamp is required by the state, proper evidence can be provided to establish that applicable excise taxes have been paid.

"Use" means the exercise of any right or power over cigarettes incident to the ownership thereof or by any transaction where possession is given, except that it does not include the sale of cigarettes in the regular course of business.

"Wholesale dealer" includes persons who are properly registered as tobacco product merchant wholesalers with the Commonwealth in accordance with the Virginia Department of Taxation Business Registration Application (Form R-1) and who (i) sell cigarettes at wholesale only to retail dealers for the purpose of resale only or (ii) sell at wholesale to institutional, commercial, or industrial users. "Wholesale dealer" also includes chain store distribution centers or houses that distribute cigarettes to their stores for sale at retail.

Code 1950, §§ 58-757.10, 58-757.18; 1960, c. 392, §§ 10, 18; 1984, c. 675; 2004, c. [1029](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP1029); 2005, cc. [28](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0028), [856](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0856); 2006, c. [768](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0768); 2012, cc. [362](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0362), [472](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0472); 2014, cc. [422](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0422), [457](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0457); 2015, cc. [738](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0738), [754](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0754); 2017, cc. [112](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0112), [453](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0453); 2019, c. [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0790).

