# § 58.1-4125 Gaming Proceeds Fund.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Gaming Proceeds Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All moneys required to be deposited into the Fund pursuant to this chapter shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund.

B. Revenues from the Fund shall be appropriated by the General Assembly as follows:

1. The following amounts shall be appropriated to the city in which they were collected:

a. An amount equal to a six percent tax on the first $200 million of adjusted gross receipts;

b. An amount equal to a seven percent tax on the adjusted gross receipts that exceed $200 million but do not exceed $400 million; and

c. An amount equal to an eight percent tax on the adjusted gross receipts that exceed $400 million.

2. For any casino gaming establishment operated by a Virginia Indian tribe recognized in House Joint Resolution No. 54 (1983) and acknowledged by the Assistant Secretary-Indian Affairs of the U.S. Department of the Interior as an Indian tribe within the meaning of federal law that has the authority to conduct gaming activities as a matter of claimed inherent authority or under the authority of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. § 2701 et seq.), an amount equal to a tax of one percent on the adjusted gross receipts of such establishment shall be deposited in the Virginia Indigenous People's Trust Fund established pursuant to § [2.2-401.01](/vacode/2.2-401.01/).

3. Eight-tenths of one percent of the Fund shall be appropriated to the Problem Gambling Treatment and Support Fund established pursuant to § [37.2-314.2](/vacode/37.2-314.2/).

4. Two-tenths of one percent of the Fund shall be appropriated to the Family and Children's Trust Fund established pursuant to § [63.2-2100](/vacode/63.2-2100/).

5. Any remaining revenues not appropriated pursuant to subdivisions B 1 through B 4 shall remain in the Fund until appropriated by the General Assembly for programs established to address public school construction, renovations, or upgrades.

C. As provided in the general appropriation act, funds appropriated pursuant to subdivision B 1 shall be distributed to cities on a quarterly basis.

2020, cc. [1197](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1197), [1248](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1248); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [7](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0007).

