# § 58.1-527 Appeals from hearings.

A. Within 30 days after the decision of the claimant agency upon a hearing pursuant to § [58.1-526](/vacode/58.1-526/) has become final, the debtor aggrieved thereby may secure judicial review thereof by commencing an action in the circuit court of the county or of the city, or if the city has no circuit court, then in the circuit court of the county in which such city is geographically located, in which the debtor resides or in which the principal office of the claimant agency is geographically located. In such action against the claimant agency for review of its decision, the claimant agency shall be named a defendant in a petition for judicial review. This section shall not be construed to confer jurisdiction on the circuit court to review questions of federal income tax law when the claimant agency is the Internal Revenue Service.

B. Such petition shall also state the grounds upon which review is sought and shall be served upon the head of the claimant agency or upon such person as the claimant agency may designate. With its answer, the claimant agency shall certify and file with the court all documents and papers and a transcript of all testimony taken in the matter, together with its findings of fact and decision therein. In any judicial proceedings under this article, the findings of the claimant agency as to the facts shall be sustained if supported by the evidence. Such actions and the questions so certified shall be heard in a summary manner at the earliest possible date. An appeal may be taken from the decision of such court to the Court of Appeals in conformity with the general law governing appeals in equity cases.

C. It shall not be necessary in any proceeding under this section to enter exceptions to the rulings of the claimant agency, and no bond shall be required upon an appeal to any court.

D. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section, if the claimant agency is otherwise subject to the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.), appeals of such agency's decision as it relates to the debtor shall be held in accordance with Article 5 (§ [2.2-4025](/vacode/2.2-4025/) et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act.

Code 1950, § 58-19.14; 1981, c. 408; 1982, c. 621; 1984, c. 675; 1996, cc. [363](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0363), [413](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0413), [573](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0573); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [489](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0489).

