# ยง 58.1-4009 Licensing of lottery sales agents; penalty.

A. No license as an agent to sell lottery tickets or shares shall be issued to any person to engage in business primarily as a lottery sales agent. Before issuing such license, the Director shall consider such factors as (i) the financial responsibility and security of the person and his business or activity; (ii) the accessibility of his place of business or activity to the public; (iii) the sufficiency of existing licensees to serve the public convenience; and (iv) the volume of expected sales.

B. For the purposes of this section, the term "person" means an individual, association, partnership, corporation, club, trust, estate, society, company, joint stock company, receiver, trustee, assignee, referee, or any other person acting in a fiduciary or representative capacity, whether appointed by a court or otherwise, and any combination of individuals. "Person" also means all departments, commissions, agencies and instrumentalities of the Commonwealth, including counties, cities, municipalities, agencies and instrumentalities thereof.

C. The chief security officer of the Virginia Lottery shall conduct a background investigation, to include a Virginia Criminal History Records search, and fingerprints that shall be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigation if the Director deems a National Criminal Records search necessary, on applicants for licensure as lottery sales agents. The Director may refuse to issue a license to operate as an agent to sell lottery tickets or shares to any person who has been (i) convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, (ii) convicted of bookmaking or other forms of illegal gambling, (iii) found guilty of any fraud or misrepresentation in any connection, (iv) convicted of a felony, or (v) engaged in conduct prejudicial to public confidence in the Lottery. The Director may refuse to grant a license or may suspend, revoke or refuse to renew a license issued pursuant to this chapter to a partnership or corporation, if he determines that any general or limited partner, or officer or director of such partnership or corporation has been (a) convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, (b) convicted of bookmaking or other forms of illegal gambling, (c) found guilty of any fraud or misrepresentation in any connection, (d) convicted of a felony, or (e) engaged in conduct prejudicial to public confidence in the Lottery. Whoever knowingly and willfully falsifies, conceals or misrepresents a material fact or knowingly and willfully makes a false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation in any application for licensure to the Virginia Lottery for lottery sales agent is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.

D. In the event an applicant is a former lottery sales agent whose license was suspended, revoked, or refused renewal pursuant to this section or ยง [58.1-4012](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-4012/), no application for a new license to sell lottery tickets or shares shall be considered for a minimum period of 90 days following the suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew.

E. Prior to issuance of a license, every lottery sales agent shall either (i) be bonded by a surety company entitled to do business in this Commonwealth in such amount and penalty as may be prescribed by the regulations of the Department or (ii) provide such other surety as may be satisfactory to the Director, payable to the Virginia Lottery and conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties.

F. Every licensed agent shall prominently display his license, or a copy thereof, as provided in the regulations of the Department.

1987, c. 531; 1989, c. 478; 2004, c. [555](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0555); 2006, c. [598](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0598); 2014, cc. [224](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0224), [225](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0225).

