# ยง 59.1-366 The Virginia Racing Commission created; members.

A. The Virginia Racing Commission is hereby created. It shall consist of five members appointed by the Governor and confirmed by a majority of those elected to each house of the General Assembly at the next regular session following any such appointment. Each Commissioner shall have been a resident of the Commonwealth for a period of at least three years next preceding his appointment and his continued residency shall be a condition of his tenure in office. The initial appointments shall be as follows: one for a term of one year, one for a term of two years, one for a term of three years, one for a term of four years, and one for a term of five years. Thereafter, all appointments shall be for terms of five years. Vacancies in the Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term in the manner provided for original appointments. Each Commissioner shall be eligible for reappointment for a second consecutive term at the discretion of the Governor. Persons who are first appointed to initial terms of less than five years shall thereafter be eligible for reappointment to two consecutive terms of five years each. The Commission shall elect its chairman. No member of the General Assembly while serving as a member shall be eligible for appointment to the Commission.

B. Each member of the Commission shall receive fifty dollars for each day or part thereof spent in the performance of his duties and in addition shall be reimbursed for his reasonable expenses incurred therein.

C. The members of the Commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor.

D. The Commission shall establish and maintain a general business office within the Commonwealth for the transaction of its business at a place to be determined by the Commission. The Commission shall meet at such times and places within the Commonwealth as it shall determine. A majority of the Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the convening of a meeting, but the performance of any duty or the exercise of any power of the Commission shall require a majority of the entire Commission.

1988, c. 855.

