# ยง 59.1-560 Powers and duties of Department.

A. The Department shall have all powers and duties necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. The Department may establish procedures deemed necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.

B. Whenever it appears to the Department that any person has violated any provision of this chapter, it may apply to the appropriate circuit court for an injunction against such person. The order granting or refusing such injunction shall be subject to appeal as in other cases in equity.

C. Whenever the Department has reasonable cause to believe that a violation of this chapter may have occurred, the Department, upon its own motion or upon complaint of any person, may investigate any fantasy contest operator to determine whether such operator has violated the provisions of this chapter. In the conduct of such investigation, the Department may:

1. Require or permit any person to file a statement in writing, under oath or otherwise as the Department determines, as to all facts and circumstances concerning the matter to be investigated; and

2. Administer oaths or affirmations and, upon its own motion or upon request of any party, subpoena witnesses and compel their attendance, take evidence, and require the production of any matter that is relevant to the investigation, including the existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any books, documents, or other tangibles and the identity and location of persons having knowledge of relevant facts or any other matter reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of material evidence.

D. Any proceedings or hearings by the Department under this chapter, where witnesses are subpoenaed and their attendance is required for evidence to be taken or any matter is to be produced to ascertain material evidence, shall take place within the City of Richmond.

E. Upon failure to obey a subpoena and upon reasonable notice to all persons affected thereby, the Department may apply to the Circuit Court of the City of Richmond for an order imposing punishment for contempt of the subpoena or compelling compliance.

2016, cc. [318](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0318), [703](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0703).

