# ยง 59.1-591 Additional requirements.

A. The board of trustees established pursuant to subsection B of ยง 59.1-590 shall (i) operate any health benefit plans in accordance with the fiduciary duties defined in ERISA and (ii) have the power to make and collect special assessments against members and, if any assessment is not timely paid, to enforce collection of such assessment.

B. Each member shall be liable for his allocated share of the liabilities of the sponsoring association under a health benefit plan as determined by the board of trustees.

C. Health benefit plan documents shall have the following statement printed on the first page in size 14-point boldface type:

"This coverage is not insurance and is not offered through an insurance company. This coverage is not required to comply with certain federal market requirements for health insurance, nor is it required to comply with certain state laws for health insurance. Each member shall be liable for his allocated share of the liabilities of the sponsoring association under the health benefit plan as determined by the board of trustees. This means that each member may be responsible for paying an additional sum if the annual premiums present a deficit of funds for the trust. The trust's financial documents shall be available for public inspection at (insert website of where sponsoring association trust documents are posted)."

2022, cc. [404](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0404), [405](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0405).

