# ยง 59.1-208 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:

1. "Contract for invention development services" means a contract by which an invention developer undertakes invention development services for a customer.

2. "Customer" means any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity that enters into a contract for invention development services with an invention developer.

3. "Invention development" means the evaluation, perfection, marketing, brokering, or promotion of an invention by an invention developer, including a patent search, preparation of a patent application, or any other act done by an invention developer for consideration toward the end of procuring or attempting to procure a license, buyer or patent for an invention, but shall not include those acts undertaken by attorneys in the practice of their profession, other persons duly registered to practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or persons rendering services to such attorneys or registered persons.

4. "Invention developer" means any person, firm, partnership, corporation, and any agent, employee, officer, partner or independent contractor thereof, that advertises invention development services in media of general circulation or that contracts with customers procured as a result of such advertisement.

5. "Invention development service" means acts of invention development required or promised to be performed, or actually performed, or both, by an invention developer for a customer.

6. "Invention" means a discovery, process, machine, design, formulation, product, concept or idea or any combination thereof.

1977, c. 649.

