# ยง 59.1-327 Purchaser's rights.

A. The purchaser shall have the following rights during the first seven calendar days following the execution of the membership camping contract:

1. A purchaser shall have the right to cancel a membership camping contract within seven calendar days following the date of its execution.

2. The right of cancellation shall not be waived and any attempt to obtain such a waiver shall be unlawful. Nothing in this section shall preclude the execution of documents in advance of closing for delivery after expiration of the cancellation period.

3. If the purchaser elects to cancel the membership camping contract, he may do so only by mailing notice thereof by certified United States mail to the membership camping operator at the address listed in the membership camping contract. The cancellation shall be deemed effective upon mailing.

4. Upon cancellation, the membership camping operator shall refund to the purchaser all payments made by such purchaser and collected by the membership camping operator pursuant to the canceled membership camping contract. The refund shall be made within sixty days after the effective date of the cancellation and may, where payment has been made by credit card, be made by an appropriate credit to the purchaser's account. Where payment is made by an exchange of real or personal property, the property may be returned to the purchaser.

5. The purchaser's right to cancel shall apply only to the initial membership camping contract executed by such purchaser and to no successor contract and shall not apply to a successor contract which replaces an existing contract executed by such purchaser, unless the successor contract is executed within seven calendar days of the original contract in which case the cancellation period shall renew itself.

B. In addition to the rights afforded the purchaser contained in subsection A of this section, the purchaser and any successor in interest shall not be held liable for any maintenance fees, dues, and assessments succeeding the effective date of notification pursuant to subdivision 2 of this subsection, if:

1. The purchaser or his successor in interest relinquishes any and all interest in the membership camping contract to the membership camping operator or his assigns; and

2. The purchaser or his successor in interest notifies the membership camping operator or his assigns, in writing, by certified mail, return receipt requested, of his relinquishment. The notice shall be deemed effective:

a. Eighteen months after the notice is mailed provided the membership camping contract is no less than fifty-four months old; and

b. If and only if the principal and interest payments, the membership fees, dues, and assessments and all other financial obligations owed by the purchaser, or his successor in interest, under the membership camping contract are paid in full as of the date of mailing; and

c. The relinquishment contained in subdivision B 1 shall be in the form of a recordable deed, duly executed and properly notarized, or other form found acceptable to the membership camping operator accompanied by a fee sufficient to record the deed.

C. If the notice complies with subsection B of this section concerning avoiding further payments of membership fees, dues, and assessments, the membership camping operator shall confirm, in writing, receipt of the notice within ten days after its receipt. If the notice does not comply with subsection B of this section, the membership camping operator or his assigns shall inform the purchaser or his successors in interest, in writing, within ten days after its receipt, of the specific reasons why the notice does not comply.

D. All moneys collected by the membership camping operator pursuant to the membership camping contract prior to notification by the purchaser or his successor in interest pursuant to subsection B of this section shall remain the property of the membership camping operator.

E. Upon satisfaction of all provisions of subsection B of this section, the purchaser or his successor in interest shall have no rights or obligations under the membership camping contract and the membership camping operator or his assigns shall make no claims against the purchaser or his successor in interest thereunder.

1985, c. 409; 1992, c. 545.

