# ยง 59.1-448 Travel services agreement; disclosure.

A. The travel services agreement shall contain a written disclosure of all limitations on and terms of the membership and shall be provided to the purchaser at the time the agreement is executed. The disclosure shall clearly and conspicuously include:

1. The name, business address and telephone number of the travel club;

2. The amount due, the date of payment, the purpose of the payment and an itemized statement of the balance due, if any;

3. A detailed description of any other service provided in conjunction with the agreement;

4. The conditions, if any, upon which the travel services agreement or membership in the travel club may be canceled and the rights and obligations of all parties in the event of such cancellation; and

5. A description of all contingencies, limitations or conditions of the agreement.

B. The purchaser may cancel the travel service agreement until midnight of the seventh calendar day after execution of the contract by use of the form prescribed in subsection C of this section; however, notice of cancellation need not take the form prescribed and shall be sufficient if it indicates the intention of the purchaser not to be bound. Notice of cancellation, if given by mail, shall be deemed given when deposited in a mailbox, properly addressed and postage prepaid. If the seventh calendar day falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, then the right to cancel the travel service agreement shall expire on the day immediately following that Sunday or legal holiday.

C. The written disclosure shall include, in addition to the requirements of subsections A and B of this section, the following statement which shall appear immediately above the buyer's signature under the conspicuous caption, "BUYER'S NONWAIVABLE RIGHT TO CANCEL," which caption shall be printed in no less than ten-point, bold-faced type:

YOU MAY CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION, WITHOUT ANY PENALTY OR OBLIGATION, WITHIN SEVEN CALENDAR DAYS FROM YOUR EXECUTION OF THIS CONTRACT UNLESS YOU HAVE ALREADY USED THE TRAVEL SERVICES PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THIS TRAVEL SERVICES AGREEMENT. IF YOU HAVE ALREADY USED THE TRAVEL SERVICES PROVIDED IN CONNECTION WITH THIS TRAVEL SERVICES AGREEMENT, YOU MAY STILL CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION WITHIN SEVEN CALENDAR DAYS FROM YOUR EXECUTION HEREOF, BUT YOU ARE NOT ENTITLED TO A REFUND OF ANY PRIOR PAYMENTS MADE FOR THE SPECIFIC TRAVEL SERVICES UTILIZED.

TO CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION, MAIL OR DELIVER A SIGNED AND DATED COPY OF THIS CANCELLATION NOTICE OR ANY OTHER WRITTEN NOTICE OR SEND A TELEGRAM TO:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Name of Seller)

AT

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Address of Seller)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ Place of Business

NOT LATER THAN MIDNIGHT OF THE SEVENTH DAY AFTER RECEIPT OF THIS DISCLOSURE

I HEREBY CANCEL THIS TRANSACTION  


\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Date)

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ (Purchaser's Signature)

D. Within forty-five days after notice of cancellation is received, the travel club shall refund to the purchaser any payments made by the purchaser pursuant to the travel services agreement. However, the travel club may retain payments made for specific travel services utilized. The refund may be made by crediting the purchaser's credit card account if a credit card was used to make a payment and if the travel club informs the purchaser in writing that the credit card account has been credited.

E. The right of cancellation afforded the purchaser by this chapter is nonwaivable and any provision in any instrument to the contrary shall be null and void.

1993, c. 760; 1994, c. [482](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0482).

