# ยง 59.1-310.4 Warning signs.

A. A tanning facility shall post a warning sign in a conspicuous location where it is readily readable by persons entering the establishment. The sign shall contain the following warning:

DANGER: ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION

Repeated exposure to ultraviolet radiation may cause chronic sun damage   
 to the skin characterized by wrinkling, dryness, fragility, and bruising of   
 the skin, and skin cancer.  
 Failure to use protective eyewear may result in severe burns or   
 permanent injury to the eyes.  
 Medications or cosmetics may increase your sensitivity to ultraviolet   
 radiation. Consult a physician or nurse practitioner before using a sunlamp   
 if you are using medications, have a history of skin problems, or believe   
 you are especially sensitive to sunlight. Pregnant women or women taking   
 oral contraceptives who use this product may develop discolored skin.

IF YOU DO NOT TAN IN THE SUN, YOU WILL NOT TAN FROM USE OF AN ULTRAVIOLET SUNLAMP.

B. A tanning facility shall post a warning sign, one sign for each tanning   
device, in a conspicuous location that is readily readable to a person about   
to use the device. The sign shall contain the following:

DANGER: ULTRAVIOLET RADIATION

1. Follow the manufacturer's instructions for use of this device.

2. Avoid too frequent or lengthy exposure. As with natural sunlight,   
 exposure can cause serious eye and skin injuries and allergic reactions.   
 Repeated exposure may cause skin cancer.

3. Wear protective eyewear. Failure to use protective eyewear may result   
 in severe burns or permanent damage to the eyes.

4. Do not sunbathe before or after exposure to ultraviolet radiation   
 from sunlamps.

5. Medications or cosmetics may increase your sensitivity to ultraviolet   
 radiation. Consult a physician or nurse practitioner before using a sunlamp   
 if you are using medication, have a history of skin problems, or believe   
 you are especially sensitive to sunlight. Pregnant women or women using   
 oral contraceptives who use this product may develop discolored skin.

IF YOU DO NOT TAN IN THE SUN, YOU WILL NOT TAN FROM USE OF THIS DEVICE.

1990, c. 776; 2004, c. [855](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0855).

