# ยง 6.2-1135 Change of branch office location.

A. A state savings institution shall not change the permanent location of a branch office without the prior approval of the Commission. An application to change the location of a branch office shall be made in writing in such form as may be prescribed by the Commission. Such application shall be approved by the Commission if the Commission finds that the change in location is in the public interest.

B. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A, a state savings institution may change the permanent location of a branch office, without applying for the approval of the Commission, if the new location will be within a one mile radius of the old location of such branch office. In such event, the state savings institution shall notify the Commissioner in writing, in such form as may be prescribed by the Commissioner, at least 60 days before such office relocation and may proceed with the relocation unless, within 30 days of receipt of the notice, the Commissioner notifies the institution that the relocation is not in the public interest. In that event, the institution shall be required to file an application and obtain the approval of the Commission in accordance with subsection A. The institution shall also notify the Commissioner in writing that the office relocation has been completed within 10 days after the opening of the office at its new location.

C. The provisions of subsections A and B shall also apply to foreign savings institutions authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth.

D. The provisions of this section shall also apply to the relocation of the main office of a state savings institution if it intends to accept deposits at the new location of the main office.

1985, c. 425, ยง 6.1-194.28; 1991, c. 230, ยง 6.1-194.121; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

