# ยง 6.2-2019 Cease and desist orders.

A. If the Commission determines that any person has violated any provision of this chapter or any regulation adopted hereunder, the Commission may, upon 21 days' notice in writing, order such person to cease and desist from such practices and to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the principal place of business of such person or other address authorized under ยง [12.1-19.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-19.1/) and shall state the grounds for the contemplated action. Within 14 days of mailing the notice, the person or persons named therein may file with the clerk of the Commission a written request for a hearing. If a hearing is requested, the Commission shall not issue a cease and desist order except based upon findings made at such hearing. Such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the Commission's Rules. The Commission may enforce compliance with any order issued under this section by imposition and collection of such fines and penalties as may be prescribed by law.

B. When, in the opinion of the Commission, immediate action is required to protect the public interest, a cease and desist order may be issued without prior hearing. In such cases, the Commission shall make a hearing available to the person on an expedited basis.

C. The Commission shall have jurisdiction to enter and enforce a cease and desist order against any person, regardless of whether such person is present in the Commonwealth, who obtains money or funds from a consumer for transmission to the consumer's creditors.

2004, c. [790](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0790), ยง 6.1-363.21; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

