# ยง 6.2-1376 Authorized investments.

The funds of a credit union that are not used in loans to members may be invested only:

1. In loans to other insured credit unions to the extent permitted in the bylaws;

2. In shares, share accounts, or deposits of other insured credit unions to the extent authorized in its bylaws, but not to exceed 25 percent of the investing credit union's outstanding shares and reserve fund;

3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in shares or deposits of any corporate credit union provided such investments are specifically authorized by the board of directors making the investment;

4. In federally insured banks and savings institutions;

5. In the capital stock of the National Credit Union Central Liquidity Facility or any central liquidity facility established under the laws of the Commonwealth;

6. In obligations of the United States and securities fully guaranteed as to principal and interest thereby;

7. In obligations of the Commonwealth and any political subdivision thereof, including, but not limited to, revenue bonds;

8. In such stock, securities, obligations, or other investments as may be approved from time to time by the Commission;

9. In real estate, office buildings, equipment, and furnishings of the credit union, provided that the aggregate investment in all such fixed assets shall not exceed five percent of the total of the members' share accounts and retained earnings without the prior written authorization of the Commissioner;

10. In shares, stock, deposits in, loans, or other obligations of any credit union service organization, corporation, or association, if (i) the membership or ownership, as the case may be, of such organization, corporation, or association is primarily confined or restricted to credit unions or organizations of credit unions and (ii) the purpose for which such organization, corporation, or association is organized is to strengthen or advance the development of credit unions or credit union organizations. Such investment by any credit union shall not exceed five percent of the credit union's outstanding shares and reserves without the prior approval of the Commissioner;

11. In deposits in, loans to, or shares of any Federal Reserve Bank; and

12. In cooperative loans with other credit unions or credit union organizations. Such investment shall not exceed 10 percent of outstanding shares and reserves of the investing credit union.

Code 1950, ยง 6-225; 1956, c. 90; 1958, c. 21; 1966, c. 584, ยง 6.1-216; 1968, c. 560; 1972, c. 192; 1974, c. 117; 1975, c. 35; 1979, c. 190; 1980, cc. 207, 210; 1983, c. 466; 1984, c. 351; 1990, c. 373, ยง 6.1-225.57; 1991, c. 367; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794); 2013, cc. [16](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0016), [92](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0092).

