# § 6.2-312 Open-end credit plans.

A. The provisions of this section shall apply to any person that makes, arranges, or negotiates a loan or otherwise extends credit under an open-end credit plan, whether or not the person maintains a physical presence in the Commonwealth. However, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any bank, savings institution, or credit union as such terms are defined in § [6.2-300](/vacode/6.2-300/).

B. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter other than § [6.2-327](/vacode/6.2-327/), and except as provided in subsections D, E, and F, a seller or lender engaged in extending credit under an open-end credit plan may impose, on credit extended under the plan, finance charges and other charges and fees at such rates and in such amounts and manner as may be agreed upon by the creditor and the obligor, if under the plan a finance charge is imposed upon the obligor if payment in full of the unpaid balance is not received at the place designated by the creditor prior to the next billing date, which shall be at least 25 days later than the prior billing date.

C. Notwithstanding the provisions of § [6.2-327](/vacode/6.2-327/) and subject to the provisions of § [8.9A-204.1](/vacode/8.9A-204.1/), any loan made under this section may be secured in whole or in part by a subordinate mortgage or deed of trust on residential real estate improved by the construction thereon of housing consisting of one- to four-family dwelling units.

D. The following persons are prohibited from engaging in the extension of credit under an open-end credit plan described in this section: (i) any person licensed under Chapter 18 (§ [6.2-1800](/vacode/6.2-1800/) et seq.), any person affiliated through common ownership with such licensed person, and any person that is a subsidiary of such licensed person; (ii) any person licensed under Chapter 22 (§ [6.2-2200](/vacode/6.2-2200/) et seq.), any person affiliated through common ownership with such licensed person, and any person that is a subsidiary of such licensed person; and (iii) any person conducting business at any office, suite, room, or place of business where a person described in clause (i) or (ii) is conducting business.

E. No person shall make a loan or otherwise extend credit under an open-end credit plan or any other lending arrangement that is secured by a non-purchase money security interest in a motor vehicle, as such term is defined in § [6.2-2200](/vacode/6.2-2200/), unless such loan or extension of credit is made in accordance with, or is exempt from, the provisions of Chapter 22 (§ [6.2-2200](/vacode/6.2-2200/) et seq.).

F. A seller or lender engaged in extending credit under an open-end credit plan to a resident of the Commonwealth or to any individual in the Commonwealth shall not charge, collect, or receive, directly or indirectly, credit insurance premiums, charges for any ancillary product sold, charges for negotiating forms of loan proceeds or refunds other than cash, charges for brokering or obtaining an extension of credit, or any fees, interest, or charges in connection with credit extended under the plan, other than (i) interest at a simple annual rate not to exceed 36 percent and (ii) a participation fee not to exceed $50 per year. Any extension of credit made in violation of this subsection is void and no person shall have the right to collect, receive, or retain any principal, interest, fees, or other charges in connection with the extension of credit.

G. Any violation of the provisions of this section shall constitute a prohibited practice in accordance with § [59.1-200](/vacode/59.1-200/) and shall be subject to any and all of the enforcement provisions of the Virginia Consumer Protection Act (§ [59.1-196](/vacode/59.1-196/) et seq.).

H. A third party shall not engage in the extension of credit under an open-end credit plan described in this section.

1987, cc. 622, 639, 714, § 6.1-330.78; 1992, Sp. Sess., c. 4; 1997, c. [112](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0112); 2009, cc. [784](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0784), [860](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0860); 2010, cc. [477](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0477), [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794); 2020, cc. [1215](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1215), [1258](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1258).

