# ยง 6.2-1143 Conversion from state savings bank to state association; conversion from state association to state savings bank.

A. A state savings bank may be converted into a state association by the amendment of its articles of incorporation in compliance with the procedure established by Title 13.1, provided that such conversion is approved in advance by the Commission. Prior to approving or disapproving a conversion, the Commission shall investigate the application to convert as if it were an application for a certificate of authority to begin a savings and loan association business, and approval shall not be granted unless the applicant meets the standards established by ยง [6.2-1118](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1118/). The order granting a certificate of authority to do a savings and loan business shall designate the main office of the state savings bank as the main office of the resulting financial institution. The resulting financial institution shall be permitted to operate all branch offices of the state savings bank that could have been established de novo by such financial institution having its main office at such location or which were in operation for at least five years prior to the date of the order permitting conversion. Within one year of the date of a conversion, the resulting financial institution shall conform its assets and operations to the provisions of law regulating the operation of state associations. The Commission may grant such resulting financial institution additional one-year periods, not to exceed a total of four additional years, in which to conform its assets and operations as required by this section.

B. A state association may be converted into a state savings bank by the amendment of its articles of incorporation in compliance with the procedure established by Title 13.1, provided that such conversion is approved in advance by the Commission. Prior to approving or disapproving a conversion, the Commission shall investigate the application to convert as if it were an application for a certificate of authority to begin a savings bank, and approval shall not be granted unless the applicant meets the standards established by ยง [6.2-1118](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1118/). Within one year of the date of the conversion, the resulting state savings bank shall conform its assets and operations to the provisions of law regulating the operation of state savings banks. The Commission may grant such resulting state savings bank additional one-year periods, not to exceed a total of four additional years, in which to conform its assets and operations to the provisions of law regulating the operation of state savings banks.

1991, c. 230, ยง 6.1-194.129; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

