# ยง 6.2-1807 Licenses; places of offices; changes.

A. Each license shall:

1. State the address of each approved office at which the business is to be conducted;

2. State fully the name of the licensee; and

3. Be prominently posted in each office of the licensee.

B. No licensee shall:

1. Use any name other than the name set forth on the license issued by the Commission; or

2. Open an additional office or relocate any office without prior approval of the Commission.

C. Applications for Commission approval to open an additional office or relocate any office shall be made in writing on a form provided by the Commissioner and shall be accompanied by payment of a $150 nonrefundable application fee or other reasonable amount as the Commission may prescribe by regulation. The application shall be approved unless the Commission finds that the applicant does not have the required liquid assets or has not conducted business under this chapter efficiently, fairly, in the public interest, and in accordance with law. The application shall be deemed approved if notice to the contrary has not been mailed by the Commission to the applicant within 30 days of the date the application is received by the Commission. After approval, the applicant shall give written notice to the Commissioner within 10 days of the commencement of business at the additional office or relocated office.

D. Every licensee shall within 10 days notify the Commissioner, in writing, of the closing of any office and of the name, address, and position of each new senior officer, member, partner, or director and provide such other information with respect to any such change as the Commissioner may reasonably require.

E. Licenses shall:

1. Not be transferable or assignable, by operation of law or otherwise; and

2. Remain in force until they have been surrendered, revoked, or suspended. The surrender, revocation, or suspension of a license shall not affect any preexisting legal right or obligation of the licensee.

2002, c. [897](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0897), ยง 6.1-451; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794); 2020, cc. [1215](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1215), [1258](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1258).

