# § 6.2-1133 Offices and other facilities of state and foreign savings institutions; approval of branch offices required.

A. A state savings institution may establish and operate such offices and other facilities as are authorized by its board of directors. A state savings institution shall not establish a branch office or other office or facility where deposits are accepted without obtaining the prior approval of the Commission as provided in subsection B. Prior to establishing or permanently closing any office or other facility, a state association shall give at least 30 days' written notice to the Commissioner, in such form as may be prescribed by the Commissioner. Prior to establishing, relocating, or permanently closing any office or other facility of the savings bank or any of its affiliates, a savings bank shall give at least 30 days' written notice to the Commissioner, in such form as may be prescribed by the Commissioner. A savings institution shall also give written notice to the Commission, in such form as may be prescribed by the Commission, within 10 days after it has established or permanently closed an office or other facility, and if the institution is a savings bank, it shall give such written notice to the Commission within 10 days after it has relocated any such office or other facility.

B. Applications for authorization to establish a branch office or other office or facility where deposits are accepted shall be made in writing, in such form as may be prescribed by the Commission. Upon review of a savings institution's application and any other information that the Commission may reasonably require, the Commission shall approve the establishment of such office or facility if it is satisfied that the public interest will be served thereby and, if the applicant is a savings bank, that it has sufficient capital to warrant additional expansion. Such offices or facilities may be closed without the prior approval of the Commission. However, written notice of the closing of such an office shall be given to the Commissioner as provided in subsection A.

C. The requirements of subsections A and B shall also apply to the establishment and closing of the offices of a foreign savings institution authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth.

Code 1950, § 6-201.41; 1960, c. 402; 1966, c. 584, § 6.1-171; 1970, c. 397; 1972, c. 796, § 6.1-195.48; 1976, c. 658; 1978, c. 683; 1985, c. 425, § 6.1-194.26; 1991, c. 230, § 6.1-194.119; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

