# ยง 6.2-2234 Place for bringing action under a contract or agreement to provide sales-based financing; certain fees paid by provider; confessions of judgment prohibited.

A. Where a provider enters into a contract or agreement with a recipient to provide sales-based financing, any cause of action arising under such contract or agreement shall be brought in a court in the Commonwealth. Any provision in the contract or agreement mandating that such action be brought outside the Commonwealth shall be unenforceable.

B. Where a contract between a provider or broker and recipient contains an arbitration provision, such contract shall not require face-to-face arbitration proceedings outside the jurisdiction where the recipient's principal place of business is located. If the contract requires face-to-face arbitration proceedings outside such jurisdiction, such provision is unenforceable. The enforceability of the remaining provisions of the arbitration agreement and the method of selecting a forum for the conduct of the arbitration proceedings are as provided in this Code, the United States Arbitration Act (P.L. 68-401), and any applicable rules of arbitration. The provider shall pay any arbitrators' expenses or fees or any other expenses or administrative fees incurred in the conduct of the arbitration proceedings.

C. No sales-based financing contract shall contain any confession by judgment provision or any similar provision. Any such provision in the contract shall be unenforceable.

2022, c. [516](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0516).

