# § 6.2-433 Amendment to open-end credit contract or plan by bank or savings institution.

A. Any open-end credit plan, as defined in § [6.2-300](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-300/), by a bank or savings institution may be amended in any respect by the bank or savings institution at any time and from time to time to modify or delete terms, or to add new terms, which new or modified terms and amendment need not be of a kind previously included in or contemplated by such contract or plan, or of a kind integral to the relationship of the parties, by following the procedures, if any, set forth in the contract or plan for effecting changes in the terms thereof, subject to the bank's or savings institution's complying with any applicable notice requirements under the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. § 1601 et seq.) and regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect from time to time.

B. Unless the contract or plan referred to in subsection A otherwise expressly provides, a bank or savings institution may amend such contract or plan in any respect at any time and from time to time, whether or not the amendment or the subject of the amendment was originally contemplated or addressed by the parties or is integral to the relationship between the parties. Without limiting the foregoing, such amendment may change terms by the addition of new terms or by the deletion or modification of existing terms, whether relating to plan benefits or features, the periodic rate or rates used to calculate finance charges, the manner of calculating periodic rate finance charges or outstanding unpaid indebtedness, variable schedules or formulas, finance charges other than periodic rate finance charges, other charges or fees, collateral requirements, methods for obtaining or repaying extensions of credit, attorney fees, plan termination, the manner for amending the terms of the contract or plan, arbitration or other alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, or other matters of any kind whatsoever. Unless the contract or plan otherwise expressly provides, any amendment may, on and after the date upon which it becomes effective as to a particular borrower, apply to all then outstanding unpaid indebtedness in the borrower's account under the contract or plan, including any such indebtedness that arose prior to the effective date of the amendment. A contract or plan may be amended pursuant to this subsection regardless of whether the contract or plan is active or inactive or whether additional borrowings are available thereunder. Any such amendment may become effective as determined by the bank or savings institution, subject to compliance by the bank or savings institution with any applicable provisions under the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. § 1601 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect from time to time. Any notice of an amendment sent by the bank or savings institution may be included in the same envelope with a periodic statement or as part of the periodic statement or in other materials sent to the borrower.

1987, cc. 622, 639, 714, § 6.1-330.63; 1992, Sp. Sess., c. 4; 1997, c. [112](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0112); 2005, c. [670](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0670); 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

