# ยง 6.2-1819 Advertising.

A. No person licensed or required to be licensed under this chapter shall use or cause to be published any advertisement that (i) contains any false, misleading or deceptive statement or representation; or (ii) identifies the person by any name other than the name set forth on the license issued by the Commission.

B. Any advertising materials used to promote short-term loans that includes the amount of any payment, expressed either as a percentage or dollar amount, or the amount of any finance charge, shall also include a statement of the interest, fees and charges, expressed as an annual percentage rate, payable using examples of a $300 loan repaid in three months, a $500 loan repaid in five months, and a $1,000 loan repaid in 10 months.

C. In any print media advertisement, including any website, used to promote short-term loans, the disclosure statements described in subsection B shall be conspicuous. "Conspicuous" shall have the meaning set forth in subdivision (a) (14) of ยง [59.1-501.2](/vacode/59.1-501.2/). If a single advertisement consists of multiple pages, folds, or faces, the disclosure requirement applies only to one page, fold, or face. In a television advertisement used to promote short-term loans, the visual disclosure legend shall include 20 scan lines in size. In a radio advertisement or advertisement communicated by telephone used to promote short-term loans, the disclosure statement shall last at least two seconds and the statement shall be spoken so that its contents may be easily understood.

2002, c. [897](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0897), ยง 6.1-462; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794); 2020, cc. [1215](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1215), [1258](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1258).

