# ยง 6.2-1711 Licenses; places of business; changes.

A. Each license shall state fully the name and address of record of the licensee. Each licensee shall be required to display proof of licensing upon request, and to prominently display at any location where he acts as a mortgage loan originator the telephone numbers and Internet addresses for the Registry and the Commission where consumers and other interested parties may confirm the status of his license. Licenses shall not be transferable or assignable, by operation of law or otherwise. Except as otherwise provided by the Commission, no licensee shall use any name, in acting as a mortgage loan originator, other than the name set forth on the license issued by the Commission.

B. Every licensee shall within 10 days notify the Commissioner, in writing, of any change of residential or business address and provide such other information with respect to any such change as the Commissioner may reasonably require.

C. Every license shall remain in force until it expires or has been surrendered, revoked, or suspended. The expiration, surrender, revocation, or suspension of a license shall not affect any preexisting legal right or obligation of the licensee. In addition:

1. Except as otherwise provided by the Commission, licenses shall expire at the end of each calendar year. A licensee may request renewal by (i) filing a license renewal application through the Registry, (ii) paying the annual license renewal fee prescribed in ยง [6.2-1714](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1714/), (iii) obtaining the continuing education prescribed in ยง [6.2-1710](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1710/), and (iv) furnishing such other information as may be required by the Commission;

2. The Commission shall renew an individual's license if the Commission finds that the individual has complied with the requirements of this chapter and continues to meet the conditions for initial licensure. If the Commission fails to make the findings required by this subdivision, the Commission shall not renew the individual's license. In determining whether to renew a license, the Commission shall consider whether the licensee has violated state or federal law; and

3. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Commission may by regulation permit a former licensee to seek license reinstatement after the license expiration date by requesting renewal in accordance with subdivision 1 and paying a reinstatement fee as prescribed by the Commission.

2009, cc. [273](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0273), [453](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0453), ยง 6.1-431.12; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794); 2012, cc. [52](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0052), [187](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0187).

