# ยง 6.2-843 Examination; periodic reports; cooperative agreements; assessment of fees.

A. The Commission may make such examinations of any branch established under this article by an out-of-state state bank as the Commission may deem necessary to determine whether the branch is operating in compliance with the laws of the Commonwealth and to ensure that the branch is being operated in a safe and sound manner. The provisions of ยง [6.2-901](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-901/) shall apply to such examinations.

B. The Commission may require periodic reports from any out-of-state bank that maintains a branch in the Commonwealth to the extent such reporting requirements (i) apply equally to similarly situated banks having the Commonwealth as their home state and (ii) are not preempted by federal law. Such reports shall be filed under oath with such frequency and in such scope and detail as may be appropriate for the purpose of assuring continuing compliance with the provisions of this article.

C. The Commission may enter into cooperative agreements with the appropriate state bank supervisors and federal banking agencies for the periodic examination of any branch in the Commonwealth of an out-of-state state bank, or any branch of a Virginia state bank in any host state, and may accept such agencies' reports of examination and reports of investigation in lieu of conducting its own examinations or investigations. The Commission may enter into joint enforcement actions with other state bank supervisors and federal banking agencies having concurrent jurisdiction over any branch of an out-of-state state bank or any branch of a Virginia state bank, or may take such actions independently to carry out its responsibilities under this article and to assure compliance with the laws of the Commonwealth.

D. Out-of-state state banks may be assessed and, if assessed, shall pay supervisory and examination fees in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth and regulations of the Commission. Such fees may be shared with other state and federal regulators in accordance with agreements between them and the Commission.

1995, c. [301](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0301), ยง 6.1-44.9; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

