# § 6.2-907 Reports of condition and other statements.

A. Every bank shall make to the Commission statements of its financial condition at such times as the Commission may require. Such statements shall be (i) made in accordance with forms prescribed by the Commission, (ii) certified under oath by the president or cashier of the bank, or, if there is no cashier, by the treasurer, and (iii) attested by at least three of its directors.

B. The Commission shall require all banks doing business in the Commonwealth to make the statements described in subsection A, and at the time prescribed. The Commission shall prepare such forms as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.

C. Whenever the Commission calls for statements, it shall forward to each such bank two forms, one of which, after being properly filled out and certified as required by subsection A, shall be returned to the Commission within a time prescribed by the Commission. The other form, filled out in like manner, shall be filed with the records of the bank. The Commission shall allow banks to submit such statements electronically. Any bank that submits such statements electronically shall maintain a copy of the statement with the required certified signatures affixed.

D. The Commission may require any bank to prepare and submit such other reports and material as it deems necessary to protect and promote the public interest.

E. The Commission may impose a civil penalty of not less than $100 but not exceeding $1,000 per day for each day of noncompliance upon any bank that it determines, in proceedings commenced in accordance with the Commission's Rules, has failed to comply with any of the provisions of this section, for a period of longer than 30 days, after being called upon by the Commission for a statement, or to do such other act as is herein provided.

Code 1950, §§ 6-105, 6-128; 1966, c. 584, §§ 6.1-93, 6.1-114; 1974, c. 665; 1976, c. 658; 1977, c. 257; 1988, c. 555; 1995, c. [561](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0561); 1997, cc. [142](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0142), [407](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0407); 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

