# ยง 6.2-1909 Cease and desist orders.

A. If the Commission determines that (i) any person has violated any provision of this chapter or any regulation adopted hereunder or (ii) a licensee is engaging in one or more unsafe or unsound practices, the Commission may, upon 21 days' notice in writing, order such person to cease and desist from such practices and to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the principal place of business of such person or other address authorized under ยง [12.1-19.1](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/12.1-19.1/) and shall state the grounds for the contemplated action. Within 14 days of mailing the notice, the person or persons named therein may file with the clerk of the Commission a written request for a hearing. The Commission may enforce compliance with any such order issued under this section by imposition and collection of such fines and penalties as may be prescribed by law.

B. When, in the opinion of the Commission, immediate action is required to protect the public interest, a cease and desist order may be issued immediately without prior hearing. In such cases, the Commission shall make a hearing available to the person on an expedited basis.

C. If required to conserve the assets of a licensee or protect the public interest, the Commission may order a licensee and its authorized delegates to cease and desist from selling additional money orders or receiving additional funds for transmission.

D. The Commission shall have jurisdiction to enter and enforce a cease and desist order against any person, regardless of whether such person is present in the Commonwealth, who directly or indirectly (i) sells money orders to citizens of the Commonwealth or (ii) obtains money or control over such citizens' funds for transmission.

2009, c. [346](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0346), ยง 6.1-374.2; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

