# ยง 6.2-1710 Continuing education requirements.

A. A licensed mortgage loan originator shall complete annually at least eight hours of continuing education courses approved in accordance with subsection B, which shall include at least: (i) three hours related to federal law and regulations; (ii) two hours related to ethics, which shall include instruction about fraud, consumer protection, and fair lending issues; and (iii) two hours related to lending standards for the nontraditional mortgage product marketplace.

B. Continuing education courses shall be reviewed and approved by the Registry based upon reasonable standards. Review and approval of a continuing education course shall include review and approval of the course provider.

C. Nothing in this section shall preclude the provision of any continuing education course that has been approved by the Registry by: (i) the employer of the mortgage loan originator; (ii) an entity that is affiliated with the mortgage loan originator by an agency contract; or (iii) a subsidiary or affiliate of such employer or entity.

D. Continuing education courses may be offered in a classroom, online, or by any means approved by the Registry.

E. A licensed mortgage loan originator may only receive credit for a continuing education course in the year in which the course is taken and may not take the same approved course in the same or successive years to meet the annual requirements for continuing education.

F. A licensed mortgage loan originator who is an instructor of an approved continuing education course may receive credit for his annual continuing education requirement at the rate of two hours of credit for every one hour of teaching.

G. A licensed mortgage loan originator who has successfully completed Registry-approved continuing education courses that satisfy the requirements of subsection A for any state shall be deemed to have satisfied the continuing education requirements of this chapter.

2009, cc. [273](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0273), [453](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0453), ยง 6.1-431.11; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

