# § 6.2-1058 Substitution of trust subsidiary as fiduciary.

A. Upon obtaining a certificate to engage in the trust business, a trust subsidiary may file an application in the circuit court of the jurisdiction in which its main office is located requesting that it be substituted, except as may be excluded in such application, in every fiduciary capacity for each of its owning banks, or, in the case of a Virginia bank holding company, for any one or more of its affiliate banks specified in the application.

B. Upon finding that (i) the trust subsidiary has obtained a certificate to engage in the trust business by the Commission, or by the Comptroller of the Currency if the trust subsidiary is a national banking association, the main office of which is in the Commonwealth and (ii) the requirements of § [6.2-1056](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1056/) have been met, the court shall enter an order substituting the trust subsidiary in every fiduciary capacity for each of its specified affiliate banks, or specified owning banks, except as may be otherwise specified in the application.

C. Upon entry of such order, the trust subsidiary shall, without further act, be substituted in every fiduciary capacity. The substitution shall be evidenced by filing a copy of the order with the clerk of any circuit court in the Commonwealth. The order shall be indexed in each index in the records of such court in which substitutions of fiduciaries are otherwise indexed. The application may be made ex parte and need not list the fiduciary capacities in which substitution is made. If the requirements of § [6.2-1056](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1056/) have been met, the order of substitution shall specify that the trust subsidiary shall be deemed without further act to have given bond with open penalty with respect to each fiduciary capacity in which there is substitution.

D. Any bond, with corporate surety, posted under this section or § [6.2-1056](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1056/) may be a blanket bond conditioned as otherwise contemplated by law.

E. Each designation in a will or other instrument heretofore or hereafter executed of a bank as fiduciary shall be deemed a designation of the trust subsidiary substituted for such bank pursuant to this section except when the instrument is executed after such substitution and expressly negates the application of this section. No waiver of surety with respect to any fiduciary bond shall be effective except in such case when the bond would be otherwise sufficient as contemplated by § [6.2-1056](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1056/) or [6.2-1059](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/6.2-1059/). Any grant in such an instrument of any discretionary power shall be deemed conferred upon the fiduciary deemed to have been nominated hereunder.

F. A bank shall account jointly with the trust subsidiary that has been substituted as fiduciary for such bank pursuant to this section for the accounting period during which the trust subsidiary is initially so substituted. Upon substitution pursuant to this section, the bank shall deliver to the trust subsidiary all assets held by the bank as fiduciary, except assets held for accounts to which there has been no substitution. Upon such substitution, all such assets shall become the property of the trust subsidiary as fiduciary without the necessity of any instrument of transfer or conveyance.

1974, c. 286, § 6.1-32.9; 1987, c. 352; 1991, c. 282; 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

