# § 6.2-1192 Regulations.

A. The Commission may adopt such regulations as it deems appropriate to effect the purposes of this chapter. Before adopting any regulation, the Commission shall give reasonable notice of its content and shall afford interested parties an opportunity to present evidence and be heard, in accordance with the Commission's Rules.

B. The Commission may adopt such regulations as may be necessary to permit state savings institutions to have powers comparable with those of federal savings institutions, regardless of any then existing statute, regulation or court decision limiting or denying such powers to state savings institutions. The requirement of a public hearing shall not automatically apply to regulations adopted under this subsection, but the Commission may have such hearing as it deems appropriate.

C. The Commission may adopt regulations governing savings institution holding companies doing business in the Commonwealth, including the activities of such companies and their subsidiaries.

D. The Commissioner shall publish and mail to each state savings institution and foreign savings institution doing business in the Commonwealth a copy of all regulations of the Commission in effect pertaining to such savings institutions at such times as he may deem proper.

E. Regulations adopted by the Commission shall continue in effect until amended or revoked by the Commission or superseded by action of the General Assembly.

1972, c. 796, § 6.1-195.72; 1985, c. 425, §§ 6.1-194.74, 6.1-194.75, 6.1-194.76, 6.1-194.87; 1990, c. 3; 1991, c. 230, §§ 6.1-194.140, 6.1-194.141, 6.1-194.142; 1996, c. [16](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0016); 2010, c. [794](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794).

