# § 60.2-115 State-federal cooperation.

A. In the administration of this title, the Commission shall cooperate with the United States Department of Labor to the fullest extent consistent with the provisions of this title. The Commission shall make such reports, in such form and containing such information as the United States Department of Labor may require, and shall comply with such provisions as the United States Department of Labor may find necessary to assure the correctness and verification of such reports. The Commission shall take such action, through the adoption of appropriate rules, regulations, administrative methods and standards, as may be necessary to secure to this Commonwealth and its citizens all advantages available under the provisions of the Social Security Act that relate to unemployment compensation, the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. § 49 et seq.), and the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (See notes following 26 U.S.C. § 3304).

B. In the administration of the provisions in §§ [60.2-610](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/60.2-610/) and [60.2-611](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/60.2-611/), which are enacted to conform with the requirements of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act (See notes following 26 U.S.C. § 3304), the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary (i) to ensure that the provisions are so interpreted and applied as to meet the requirements of such federal act as interpreted by the United States Department of Labor, and (ii) to secure to this Commonwealth the full reimbursement of the federal share of extended benefits paid under this title that are reimbursable under the federal act.

C. The Commission shall further make its records available to the Railroad Retirement Board and shall furnish to the Railroad Retirement Board at the expense of the Railroad Retirement Board, such copies thereof as the Board shall deem necessary for its purposes in accordance with the provisions of § 303 (c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. § 503 (c)).

D. The Commission shall afford reasonable cooperation with every agency of the United States charged with the administration of any unemployment insurance law.

E. Upon request therefor, the Commission shall furnish to any agency of the United States charged with the administration of public works or assistance through public employment, the name, address, ordinary occupation, and employment status of each recipient of benefits and such recipient's rights to further benefits under this title.

Code 1950, § 60-39; 1956, c. 440; 1968, c. 738, § 60.1-44; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 235; 1986, c. 480.

