# ยง 60.2-510 Election as to coverage.

A. Any employing unit, not otherwise subject to this title, which files with the Commission its written election to become an employer subject to this title for not less than two calendar years, shall, with the written approval of the Commission, become an employer subject to this title to the same extent as all other employers. Such employer shall be subject as of January 1 of the calendar year for which such election is approved, and shall cease to be subject as of January 1 of any calendar year subsequent to such two calendar years if it has filed with the Commission a written notice to that effect. However, the Commission may, on its own motion, and after ten days' written notice mailed to such employing unit at its last known address, without regard to the two-year calendar period, revoke such written approval. As of the date of such revocation, such employing unit shall cease to be an employer.

B. Any employing unit for which services are performed which do not constitute employment as defined in this title may file with the Commission a written election that all such services performed by individuals in its employ in one or more distinct establishments or places of business shall be deemed to constitute employment for all the purposes of this title for not less than two calendar years. Upon the Commission's written approval, such services shall be deemed to constitute employment subject to this title from the date stated in such approval. Such services shall cease to be deemed employment subject thereto as of January 1 of any calendar year subsequent to such two calendar years, only if at least thirty days prior to such January 1 such employing unit has filed with the Commission a written notice to that effect.

Code 1950, ยง 60-84; 1968, c. 738, ยง 60.1-100; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 235; 1974, c. 660; 1977, c. 330; 1986, c. 480.

