# § 60.2-212 Employment.

A. "Employment" means:

1. Any service including service in interstate commerce, performed for remuneration or under any contract of hire, written or oral, express or implied; and

2. Any service, of whatever nature, performed by an individual for any employing unit, for remuneration or under any contract of hire, written or oral, and irrespective of citizenship or residence of either,

a. Within the United States, or

b. On or in connection with an American vessel or American aircraft under a contract of service which is entered into within the United States or during the performance of which and while the individual is employed on the vessel or aircraft it touches at a port in the United States, if such individual performs such services on or in connection with such vessel or aircraft when outside the United States, provided that the operating office, from which the operations of the vessel or aircraft are ordinarily and regularly supervised, managed, directed or controlled, is within the Commonwealth.

B. Notwithstanding subdivision 2 b of subsection A of this section, "employment" means all service performed by an officer or member of the crew of an American vessel on or in connection with such vessel, if the operating office from which the operations of such vessel operating on navigable waters within, or within and without, the United States are ordinarily and regularly supervised, managed, directed and controlled is within the Commonwealth.

C. Services performed by an individual for remuneration shall be deemed to be employment subject to this title unless the Commission determines that such individual is not an employee for purposes of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act and the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, based upon an application of the standard used by the Internal Revenue Service for such determinations.

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection C, an individual who performs services as a real estate salesperson, under direction of a real estate broker under Chapter 21 (§ [54.1-2100](/vacode/54.1-2100/) et seq.) of Title 54.1, or as a real estate appraiser under Chapter 20.1 (§ [54.1-2009](/vacode/54.1-2009/) et seq.) of Title 54.1 pursuant to an executed independent contractor agreement and for remuneration solely by way of commission or fee, shall not be an employee for purposes of this chapter.

E. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection C, a hiring party providing an individual with personal protective equipment in response to a disaster caused by a communicable disease of public health threat for which a state of emergency has been declared pursuant to § [44-146.17](/vacode/44-146.17/) shall not be considered in any determination regarding whether such individual is an employee or independent contractor. For the purposes of this subsection, the terms "communicable disease of public health threat," "disaster," and "state of emergency" have the same meaning as provided in § [44-146.16](/vacode/44-146.16/).

Code 1950, § 60-14; 1952, cc. 30, 184; 1956, c. 440; 1962, c. 71; 1968, c. 738, § 60.1-14; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 235; 1972, c. 824; 1974, cc. 466, 660; 1976, c. 304; 1977, c. 330; 1979, c. 637; 1980, cc. 520, 522; 1981, cc. 28, 369, 374, 375; 1982, c. 25; 1983, c. 14; 1984, cc. 120, 139, 204; 1985, cc. 152, 254; 1986, c. 480; 1996, c. [244](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0244); 2005, c. [892](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0892); 2020, c. [1261](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1261); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [448](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0448).

