# ยง 62.1-233 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:

"Authority" means the Virginia Resources Authority created in Chapter 21 (ยง [62.1-197](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-197/) et seq.) of this title.

"Board" means the Board of Health.

"Cost," as applied to any project financed under the provisions of this chapter, means the total of all costs incurred as reasonable and necessary for carrying out all works and undertakings necessary or incident to the accomplishment of any project. It includes, without limitation, all necessary developmental, planning and feasibility studies, surveys, plans and specifications, architectural, engineering, financial, legal or other special services, the cost of acquisition of land and any buildings and improvements thereon, including the discharge of any obligations of the sellers of such land, buildings or improvements, site preparation and development, including demolition or removal of existing structures, construction and reconstruction, labor, materials, machinery and equipment, the reasonable costs of financing incurred in the course of the development of the project, carrying charges incurred before placing the project in service, interest on funds borrowed to finance the project to a date subsequent to the estimated date the project is to be placed in service, necessary expenses incurred in connection with placing the project in service, the funding of accounts and reserves which the Authority may require and the cost of other items which the Authority determines to be reasonable and necessary.

"Fund" means the Virginia Water Supply Revolving Fund created by this chapter.

"Local government" means any county, city, town, municipal corporation, authority, district, commission or political subdivision created by the General Assembly or pursuant to the Constitution or laws of the Commonwealth or any combination of any two or more of the foregoing.

"Noncommunity waterworks" means a waterworks that serves an average of at least twenty-five individuals for at least sixty days out of the year and such individuals are not year-round residents.

"Other entities" means owners of waterworks; however, this term does not include the federal government or owners of noncommunity waterworks operated for profit.

"Project" means any water supply facility which serves primarily residents of the Commonwealth or which is located or to be located in the Commonwealth. The term includes, without limitation, water supply and intake facilities; water treatment and filtration facilities; water storage facilities; water distribution facilities; related office, administrative, storage, maintenance and laboratory facilities; and interests in land related thereto.

"Waterworks" means a system that serves piped water for drinking or domestic use to (i) the public, (ii) at least fifteen connections or (iii) an average of twenty-five individuals for at least sixty days out of the year. The term includes all structures, equipment and appurtenances used in the storage, collection, purification, treatment and distribution of pure water except the piping and fixtures inside the building where such water is delivered.

1987, c. 324; 1997, cc. [651](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0651), [665](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0665).

