# § 62.1-262 (For contingent effective date, see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. 100) Permits for other ground water withdrawals.

Any application for a ground water withdrawal permit, except as provided in § [62.1-260](/vacode/62.1-260/) or [62.1-261](/vacode/62.1-261/) or subsection H of § [62.1-266](/vacode/62.1-266/), shall include a water conservation and management plan approved by the Board. Such water conservation and management plan shall include (i) the use of water-saving plumbing and processes including, where appropriate, water-saving fixtures in new and renovated plumbing as provided under the Uniform Statewide Building Code; (ii) a water-loss reduction program; (iii) a water-use education program; (iv) a water auditing plan that complies with requirements established by the Board in regulations; (v) a leak detection and repair plan that complies with requirements established by the Board in regulations; and (vi) mandatory reductions during water-shortage emergencies, including, where appropriate, ordinances prohibiting waste of water generally and providing for mandatory water-use restrictions, with penalties, during water-shortage emergencies. The Board shall approve any water conservation plan that complies with clauses (i) through (vi). Once approved by the Board, such water conservation and management plan shall be incorporated by reference as a condition in the ground water withdrawal permit. The Board shall not issue a ground water withdrawal permit, except as provided in § [62.1-260](/vacode/62.1-260/) or [62.1-261](/vacode/62.1-261/) or subsection H of § [62.1-266](/vacode/62.1-266/), without an approved water conservation and management plan.

1992, c. 812; 2020, c. [670](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0670); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [100](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0100).

