# ยง 62.1-241.1 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:

"Authority" means the Virginia Resources Authority created in Chapter 21 (ยง [62.1-197](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-197/) et seq.) of this title.

"Board" means the Virginia Waste Management Board.

"Cost," as applied to any project financed under the provisions of this chapter, means the total of all costs incurred by the local government as reasonable and necessary for carrying out all works and undertakings necessary or incident to the accomplishment of any project. It includes, without limitation, all necessary developmental, planning and feasibility studies, surveys, plans and specifications; architectural, engineering, financial, legal or other special services; the cost of acquisition of land and any buildings and improvements thereon, including the discharge of any obligations of the sellers of such land, buildings or improvements; site preparation and development, including demolition or removal of existing structures; construction and reconstruction; labor, materials, machinery and equipment; the reasonable costs of financing incurred by the local government in the course of the development of the project; carrying charges incurred before placing the project in service; interest on funds borrowed to finance the project to a date subsequent to the estimated date the project is to be placed in service; necessary expenses incurred in connection with placing the project in service; the funding of accounts and reserves which the Authority may require; and the cost of other items which the Authority determines to be reasonable and necessary.

"Fund" means the Virginia Solid Waste or Recycling Revolving Fund created by this chapter.

"Local government" means any county, city, town, municipal corporation, authority, district, commission or political subdivision created by the General Assembly or pursuant to the Constitution or laws of the Commonwealth or any combination of any two or more of the foregoing.

"Project" means any solid waste management facility as defined in ยง [10.1-1400](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1400/) or a recycling facility for materials identified in a plan adopted pursuant to ยง [10.1-1411](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1411/) or both.

1992, c. 378.

