# ยง 62.1-44.15:56 (For repeal date, see Acts 2016, cc. 68 and 758, as amended by Acts 2017, c. 345) State agency and federal entity projects.

A. A state agency shall not undertake a project involving a land-disturbing activity unless (i) the state agency has submitted annual standards and specifications for its conduct of land-disturbing activities that have been reviewed and approved by the Department as being consistent with this article and associated regulations or (ii) the state agency has submitted an erosion and sediment control plan for the project that has been reviewed and approved by the Department. When a federal entity submits an erosion and sediment control plan for a project, land disturbance shall not commence until the Department has reviewed and approved the plan.

B. The Department shall not approve an erosion and sediment control plan submitted by a state agency or federal entity for a project involving a land-disturbing activity (i) in any locality that has not adopted a local program with more stringent regulations than those of the state program or (ii) in multiple jurisdictions with separate local programs, unless the erosion and sediment control plan is consistent with the requirements of the state program.

C. The Department shall not approve an erosion and sediment control plan submitted by a state agency or federal entity for a project involving a land-disturbing activity in one locality with a local program with more stringent ordinances than those of the state program unless the erosion and sediment control plan is consistent with the requirements of the local program. If a locality has not submitted a copy of its local program regulations to the Department, the provisions of subsection B shall apply.

D. The Department shall have 60 days in which to comment on any standards and specifications or erosion and sediment control plan submitted to it for review, and its comments shall be binding on the state agency and any private business hired by the state agency.

E. As onsite changes occur, the state agency shall submit changes in an erosion and sediment control plan to the Department.

F. The state agency responsible for the land-disturbing activity shall ensure compliance with an approved plan, and the Department and Board, where applicable, shall provide project oversight and enforcement as necessary.

G. If the state agency or federal entity has developed, and the Department has approved, annual standards and specifications, and the state agency or federal entity has been approved by the Board to operate a VESCP as a VESCP authority, erosion and sediment control plan review and approval and land-disturbing activity inspections shall be conducted by such entity. The Department and the Board, where applicable, shall provide project oversight and enforcement as necessary and comprehensive program compliance review and evaluation. Such standards and specifications shall be consistent with the requirements of this article and associated regulations and the Stormwater Management Act (ยง [62.1-44.15:24](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-44.15:24/) et seq.) and associated regulations when applicable.

1973, c. 486, ยง 21-89.6; 1979, c. 432; 1988, c. 891, ยง 10.1-564; 1993, c. 925; 2012, cc. [785](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0785), [819](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0819); 2013, cc. [756](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0756), [793](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0793).

