# ยง 62.1-261 Permits for existing ground water withdrawals in newly established ground water management areas.

A. Persons withdrawing ground water in any area declared a ground water management area on or after July 1, 1992, shall file an application within six months after the ground water management area has been declared in order to obtain a permit for withdrawals. The Board shall issue permits for the total amount of ground water withdrawn during any consecutive twelve-month period in the five years preceding said declaration, together with such savings as can be demonstrated to have been achieved through water conservation.

B. Persons withdrawing ground water for agricultural or livestock watering purposes in any area declared a ground water management area on or after July 1, 1992, shall file an application within six months after the ground water management area has been declared in order to obtain a permit for withdrawals. The Board shall issue permits for the total amount of ground water withdrawn during any consecutive twelve-month period in the ten-year period preceding such declaration, together with such savings as can be demonstrated to have been achieved through water conservation.

C. Persons withdrawing ground water in any area declared a ground water management area on or after July 1, 1992, may continue such withdrawal until the required permit application is acted on by the Board, provided that the permit application is filed within the six-month period following the declaration.

D. Persons applying for a ground water withdrawal permit issued pursuant to this section may request that they be permitted to withdraw more ground water than the amount to which they may be entitled based on their historic usage as set forth in this section. The Board in its discretion may issue a permit for a greater amount than that which is based on historic usage, upon consideration of factors set forth in ยง [62.1-263](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-263/).

E. Failure by any person covered by the provisions of subsection A or B to file an application for a ground water withdrawal permit within the six months following the declaration of the ground water management area creates a presumption that any claim to withdraw ground water based on history of usage has been abandoned. In reviewing any application for a ground water withdrawal permit subsequently made by such a person, the Board shall consider the factors set forth in ยง [62.1-263](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-263/).

1992, c. 812.

