# ยง 62.1-44.19:17 Virginia Nutrient Credit Exchange Association authorized; duties; composition; appointment; terms.

A. The permittees under the general permit may establish a nonstock corporation under Chapter 10 (ยง [13.1-801](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/13.1-801/) et seq.) of Title 13.1, to be known as the Virginia Nutrient Credit Exchange Association, to coordinate and facilitate participation in the nutrient credit exchange program by its members. The Virginia Nutrient Credit Exchange Association, which is hereafter referred to as the Association, may (i) submit on behalf of the permittees the compliance plans required by ยง [62.1-44.19:14](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-44.19:14/), (ii) develop a standard form of agreement for use by permittees when buying and selling nitrogen and phosphorus allocations and credits, (iii) assist permittees in identifying buyers and sellers of nitrogen and phosphorus allocations and credits, (iv) coordinate planning to ensure that to the extent possible, sufficient credits are available each year to achieve full compliance with the general permit, (v) assist individual municipal permittees in utilizing public-private partnerships and other innovative measures to achieve the Commonwealth's water quality goals, and (vi) perform such other duties and functions as may be necessary to the effective and efficient implementation of the credit exchange program. The Association shall not assume any of the permittees' compliance obligations under the general permit.

B. Only permittees under the general permit may become members of the Association. The Association shall operate through a board of directors, which shall consist of 10 members and be representative of the membership in the Association. Association board members shall be employees of Association members, shall be elected by the Association membership at the beginning of each term of the general permit, and shall serve through the end of the permit term to which they were elected. Vacancies for unexpired Association board terms shall be filled in the same manner in which members are originally elected to the Association board.

C. The Association board shall elect a president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer from among its members at the beginning of each permit term. Officers and Association board members shall receive no compensation for their services as officers and board members of the Association.

2005, cc. [708](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0708), [710](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0710).

