# § 62.1-44.15:80 Findings and purpose.

The General Assembly determines and finds that to comply with § 401 of the federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1341), any applicant for a federal license or permit to conduct any activity that may result in any discharge into navigable waters shall provide the federal licensing or permitting authority with a certification from the state in which the discharge originates or will originate certifying that any such discharge will comply with applicable provisions of the Clean Water Act. The General Assembly determines and finds that the Virginia Water Protection Permit program has proven to be sufficient to evaluate and, when necessary, mitigate potential water quality impacts for most federally permitted projects. Virginia Water Protection Permit coverage addresses the impacts caused to wetlands and streams by excavating in a wetland, draining or significantly altering wetland acreage or function, filling or dumping in a stream or wetland, or permanently flooding or impounding a wetland area or stream. However, the conditions and requirements of a Virginia Water Protection Permit do not cover activities in upland areas, outside of wetlands and streams, that may result in a discharge to state waters. The General Assembly determines and finds that for construction of natural gas transmission pipelines greater than 36 inches inside diameter that are subject to a certificate of public convenience and necessity under § 7c of the federal Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. § 717f(c)), there may be activities in upland areas that may have the potential to affect water quality but that do not fall within the scope of the Virginia Water Protection Permit program. Information related to such impacts would not be contained in the Joint Permit Application utilized to determine permit conditions for a Virginia Water Protection Permit. The General Assembly determines and finds that issuance of a Virginia Water Protection Permit and a certification issued pursuant to this article shall together constitute the certification required under § 401 of the Clean Water Act for natural gas transmission pipelines greater than 36 inches inside diameter subject to § 7c of the Natural Gas Act.

2018, c. [636](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0636).

