# ยง 62.1-201 Board of Directors.

A. All powers, rights and duties conferred by this chapter or other provisions of law upon the Authority shall be exercised by a board of directors consisting of the State Treasurer or his designee, the State Health Commissioner or his designee, the Director of the Department of Environmental Quality or his designee, the Director of the Department of Aviation or his designee, and seven members appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The members of the Board of Directors appointed by the Governor shall serve terms of four years each, except that the original terms of three members appointed by the Governor shall end on June 30, 1985, 1986, and 1987, respectively, as designated by the Governor. Any appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board of Directors shall be made for the unexpired term of the member whose death, resignation or removal created the vacancy. All members of the Board of Directors shall be residents of the Commonwealth. Members may be appointed to successive terms on the Board of Directors. Each member of the Board of Directors shall be reimbursed for his or her reasonable expenses incurred in attendance at meetings or when otherwise engaged in the business of the Authority and shall be compensated at the rate provided in ยง [2.2-2813](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2813/) for each day or portion thereof in which the member is engaged in the business of the Authority.

B. The Governor shall designate one member of the Board of Directors as chairman; he shall be the chief executive officer of the Authority. The Board of Directors may elect one member as vice-chairman; he shall exercise the powers of chairman in the absence of the chairman or as directed by the chairman. The State Treasurer or his designee, the Director of the Department of Environmental Quality or his designee, the Director of the Department of Aviation or his designee, and the State Health Commissioner or his designee shall not be eligible to serve as chairman or vice-chairman.

C. Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at the call of the chairman or of any five members. Six members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the Authority. An act of the majority of the members of the Board of Directors present at any regular or special meeting at which a quorum is present shall be an act of the Board of Directors. No vacancy on the Board of Directors shall impair the right of a majority of a quorum of the members of the Board of Directors to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the Authority.

D. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no officer or employee of the Commonwealth shall be deemed to have forfeited or shall have forfeited his or her office or employment by reason of acceptance of membership on the Board of Directors or by providing service to the Authority.

1984, c. 699; 1989, cc. 533, 551; 1992, c. 887; 2000, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0038), [197](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0197); 2012, cc. [114](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0114), [242](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0242).

