# § 63.2-1709 Enforcement and sanctions; assisted living facilities and adult day care centers; interim administration; receivership, revocation, denial, summary suspension.

A. Upon receipt and verification by the Commissioner of information from any source indicating an imminent and substantial risk of harm to residents, the Commissioner may require an assisted living facility to contract with an individual licensed by the Board of Long-Term Care Administrators, to be either selected from a list created and maintained by the Department of Medical Assistance Services or selected from a pool of appropriately licensed administrators recommended by the owner of the assisted living facility, to administer, manage, or operate the assisted living facility on an interim basis, and to attempt to bring the facility into compliance with all relevant requirements of law, regulation, or any plan of correction approved by the Commissioner. Such contract shall require the interim administrator to comply with any and all requirements established by the Department to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the residents. Prior to or upon conclusion of the period of interim administration, management, or operation, an inspection shall be conducted to determine whether operation of the assisted living facility shall be permitted to continue or should cease. Such interim administration, management, or operation shall not be permitted when defects in the conditions of the premises of the assisted living facility (i) present immediate and substantial risks to the health, safety, and welfare of residents, and (ii) may not be corrected within a reasonable period of time. Any decision by the Commissioner to require the employment of a person to administer, manage, or operate an assisted living facility shall be subject to the rights of judicial review and appeal as provided in the Administrative Process Act (§ [2.2-4000](/vacode/2.2-4000/) et seq.). Actual and reasonable costs of such interim administration shall be the responsibility of and shall be borne by the owner of the assisted living facility.

B. The Board shall adopt regulations for the Commissioner to use in determining when the imposition of administrative sanctions or initiation of court proceedings, severally or jointly, is appropriate in order to ensure prompt correction of violations in assisted living facilities and adult day care centers involving noncompliance with state law or regulation as discovered through any inspection or investigation conducted by the Departments of Social Services, Health, or Behavioral Health and Developmental Services. The Commissioner may impose such sanctions or take such actions as are appropriate for violation of any of the provisions of this subtitle or any regulation adopted under any provision of this subtitle that adversely affects the health, safety or welfare of an assisted living facility resident or an adult day care participant. Such sanctions or actions may include (i) petitioning the court to appoint a receiver for any assisted living facility or adult day care center and (ii) revoking or denying renewal of the license for the assisted living facility or adult day care center for violation of any of the provisions of this subtitle, § [54.1-3408](/vacode/54.1-3408/) or any regulation adopted under this subtitle that violation adversely affects, or is an immediate and substantial threat to, the health, safety or welfare of the person cared for therein, or for permitting, aiding or abetting the commission of any illegal act in an assisted living facility or adult day care center.

C. The Commissioner may issue a notice of summary suspension of the license to operate the assisted living facility pursuant to (i) for assisted living facilities operated by agencies of the Commonwealth, the procedures set forth in § [63.2-1710.1](/vacode/63.2-1710.1/) or (ii) for all other assisted living facilities, the procedures hereinafter set forth in conjunction with any proceeding for revocation, denial, or other action when conditions or practices exist that pose an immediate and substantial threat to the health, safety, and welfare of the residents. The notice of summary suspension shall set forth (a) the summary suspension procedures, (b) hearing and appeal rights as provided under this subsection, (c) facts and evidence that formed the basis for which the summary suspension is sought, and (d) the time, date, and location of the hearing to determine whether the suspension is appropriate. Such notice shall be served on the assisted living facility or its designee as soon as practicable thereafter by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of record of the assisted living facility.

The summary suspension hearing shall be presided over by a hearing officer selected by the Commissioner from a list prepared by the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia and shall be held as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 15 business days following service of the notice of hearing; however, the hearing officer may grant a written request for a continuance, not to exceed an additional 10 business days, for good cause shown. Within 10 business days after such hearing, the hearing officer shall provide to the Commissioner written findings and conclusions, together with a recommendation as to whether the license should be summarily suspended.

Within 10 business days of the receipt of the hearing officer's findings, conclusions, and recommendation, the Commissioner may issue a final order of summary suspension or an order that such summary suspension is not warranted by the facts and circumstances presented. The Commissioner shall adopt the hearing officer's recommended decision unless to do so would be an error of law or Department policy. In the event that the Commissioner rejects a hearing officer's findings, conclusions, or recommended decision, the Commissioner shall state with particularity the basis for rejection. In issuing a final order of summary suspension, the Commissioner may suspend the license of the assisted living facility or suspend only certain authority of the assisted living facility to provide certain services or perform certain functions that the Commissioner determines should be restricted or modified in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the residents receiving care. A final order of summary suspension shall include notice that the assisted living facility may appeal the Commissioner's decision to the appropriate circuit court no later than 10 days following service of the order. A copy of any final order of summary suspension shall be prominently displayed by the provider at each public entrance of the facility, or in lieu thereof, the provider may display a written statement summarizing the terms of the order in a prominent location, printed in a clear and legible size and typeface, and identifying the location within the facility where the final order of summary suspension may be reviewed.

Upon appeal, the sole issue before the court shall be whether the Department had reasonable grounds to require the assisted living facility to cease operations during the pendency of the concurrent revocation, denial, or other proceeding. Any concurrent revocation, denial, or other proceeding shall not be affected by the outcome of any hearing on the appropriateness of the summary suspension. The willful and material failure to comply with the final order of summary suspension shall constitute an offense under subdivision 3 of § [63.2-1712](/vacode/63.2-1712/). At the request of the Commissioner, all agencies and subdivisions of the Commonwealth shall cooperate with the Commissioner in the relocation of residents of an assisted living facility whose license has been summarily suspended pursuant to this section and in any other actions necessary to reduce the risk of further harm to residents.

D. Notice of the Commissioner's intent to revoke or deny renewal of the license for an assisted living facility or to summarily suspend the license of an assisted living facility shall be provided by the Department and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a prominent place at each public entrance of the licensed premises to advise consumers of serious or persistent violations. In determining whether to deny, revoke, or summarily suspend a license, the Commissioner may choose to deny, revoke, or summarily suspend only certain authority of the assisted living facility to operate and may restrict or modify the assisted living facility's authority to provide certain services or perform certain functions that the Commissioner determines should be restricted or modified in order to protect the health, safety, or welfare of the residents. Such proposed denial, revocation, or summary suspension of certain services or functions may be appealed (i) if the assisted living facility is operated by an agency of the Commonwealth in accordance with the provisions of § 63.2-1710.2 and (ii) for all other assisted living facilities as otherwise provided in this subtitle for any denial, revocation, or summary suspension.

Code 1950, § 63-249; 1968, c. 578, § 63.1-212; 1991, c. 532, § 63.1-179.1; 1992, c. 356, § 63.1-194.9; 1993, cc. 730, 742, 957, 993, § 63.1-211.3; 1998, cc. [115](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0115), [397](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0397), [850](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0850); 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747); 2005, cc. [610](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0610), [924](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0924); 2009, cc. [813](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813), [840](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840); 2018, c. [274](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0274); 2019, c. [449](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0449).

