# § 63.2-1946 Virginia New Hire Reporting Center; State Directory of New Hires; reporting by employers.

A. For the purposes of this section:

"New independent contractor" means an independent contractor who (i) has not previously had a contract with an employer or (ii) had previously entered into a contract and has received a payment pursuant to the agreement after receiving no payments for at least 60 consecutive days.

"Newly hired employee" means an individual in employment, as defined in § [60.2-212](/vacode/60.2-212/), who (i) has not previously been in the employment of the employer or (ii) was previously in the employment of the employer but has been separated from such prior employment for at least 60 consecutive days.

B. The Virginia New Hire Reporting Center shall be operated under the authority of the Division of Child Support Enforcement. The Center shall operate and maintain the Virginia State Directory of New Hires. The Center is authorized to share information with the Virginia Employment Commission.

C. Each employing unit shall submit information concerning each newly hired employee to the Center within 20 days of the employment, as defined in § [60.2-212](/vacode/60.2-212/), of the newly hired employee. The information shall include the items required by § 453A of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. § 653a, as amended.

D. Any employer that contracts with an independent contractor shall submit information concerning each new independent contractor to the Center within 20 days of the start of the contract. The information shall include items required by § 453A of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. § 653a, as amended.

E. Employers who transmit such reports magnetically or electronically shall, if necessary, report by two monthly transmissions not less than 12 days nor more than 16 days apart. Employers that have employees who are employed in or independent contractors who are contracted to provide services in two or more states and that transmit reports magnetically or electronically may comply by designating one state in which such employer has employees or independent contractors to which the employer will transmit the report and transmitting such report to such state. Such employers shall notify the federal Secretary of Health and Human Services in writing as to which state is designated for the purpose of sending reports and shall provide a copy of that notification to the Virginia New Hire Reporting Center.

F. Employers shall not report an employee or independent contractor of a state agency performing intelligence or counterintelligence functions, if the head of such agency has determined that such reporting could endanger the safety of the employee or independent contractor or compromise an ongoing investigation or intelligence mission.

G. Information to be provided shall include only that information that is required by federal law. This information may be provided by mailing a copy of the employee's W-4 form or the independent contractor's W-9 form, transmitting information magnetically or electronically in the prescribed format or by any other means determined by the Virginia New Hire Reporting Center to result in timely reporting. Within three business days after the date information regarding a newly hired employee or new independent contractor is entered into the Virginia State Directory of New Hires, the Center shall furnish the information to the National Directory of New Hires established under § 453(i) of the Social Security Act, as amended.

H. The Division of Child Support Enforcement shall use information received pursuant to this section to locate individuals for purposes of establishing paternity and establishing, modifying, and enforcing child support obligations and may disclose such information in accordance with existing law to carry out such purposes. The Division shall have access to information reported by employers pursuant to this section.

I. The Board shall have the authority to adopt regulations as necessary, consistent with the federal law and its implementing regulations, to administer this provision, including any exemptions and waivers that are needed to reduce unnecessary or burdensome reporting.

1998, c. [108](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0108), § 63.1-274.11; 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747); 2013, c. [329](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0329); 2020, c. [722](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0722).

