# ยง 63.2-1710.1 Summary order of suspension; assisted living facilities and child welfare agencies operated by an agency of the Commonwealth.

Whenever the Commissioner issues a summary order of suspension of the license to operate an assisted living facility, group home, or child welfare agency operated by an agency of the Commonwealth:

1. Before such summary order of suspension shall take effect, the Commissioner shall issue to the assisted living facility, group home, or child welfare agency a notice of summary order of suspension setting forth (i) the procedures for a hearing and right of review as provided in this section and (ii) facts and evidence that formed the basis on which the summary order of suspension is sought. Such notice shall be served on the licensee or its designee as soon as practicable thereafter by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of record of the licensee. The notice shall state the time, date, and location of a hearing to determine whether the suspension is appropriate. Such hearing shall be held no later than three business days after the issuance of the notice of the summary order of suspension and shall be convened by the Commissioner or his designee. After such hearing, the Commissioner may issue a final order of summary suspension or may find that such summary suspension is not warranted by the facts and circumstances presented.

2. A final order of summary suspension shall include notice that the licensee may request, in writing and within three business days after receiving the Commissioner's decision, that the Commissioner refer the matter to the Secretary of Health and Human Resources for resolution within three business days of the referral. Any determination by the Secretary shall be final and not subject to judicial review. If the final order of summary suspension is upheld, it shall take effect immediately, and a copy of the final order of summary suspension shall be prominently displayed by the licensee at each public entrance of the facility. Any concurrent revocation, denial, or other proceedings shall not be affected by the outcome of any determination by the Secretary.

2018, c. [274](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0274); 2019, c. [449](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0449).

