# § 63.2-1250 Registration; notice; form.

A. Any man who has engaged in sexual intercourse with a woman is deemed to be on legal notice that a child may be conceived and that the man is entitled to all legal rights and obligations resulting therefrom. Lack of knowledge of the pregnancy does not excuse failure to timely register with the Virginia Birth Father Registry.

B. A man who desires to be notified of a placement of a child by a local board pursuant to § [63.2-900](/vacode/63.2-900/), a proceeding for adoption, or a proceeding for termination of parental rights regarding a child that he may have fathered shall register with the Virginia Birth Father Registry.

C. Failure to timely register with the Virginia Birth Father Registry shall waive all rights of a man who is not acknowledged to be, presumed to be, or adjudicated the father to withhold consent to an adoption proceeding unless the man was led to believe through the birth mother's misrepresentation that (i) the pregnancy was terminated or the mother miscarried when in fact the baby was born or (ii) the child died when in fact the child is alive. Upon discovery of the misrepresentation, the man shall register with the Virginia Birth Father Registry within 10 days; however, registration with the Virginia Birth Father Registry shall be untimely if 180 days have elapsed from the date the circuit court entered the final order of adoption.

D. A man will not prejudice any rights by failing to register if:

1. A father-child relationship between the man and the child has been established pursuant to § [20-49.1](/vacode/20-49.1/), [20-49.8](/vacode/20-49.8/), or if the man is a presumed father as defined in § [63.2-1202](/vacode/63.2-1202/); or

2. The man commences a proceeding to adjudicate his paternity before a petition to accept consent or waive adoption consent is filed in the juvenile and domestic relations district court, or before a petition for adoption or a petition for the termination of his parental rights is filed with the court.

E. Registration is timely if it is received by the Department within 10 days of the child's birth unless the time specified in subsection C or F applies. Registration is complete when the signed registration form is first received by the Department. The signed registration form shall be submitted in the manner prescribed by the Department.

F. In the event that the identity and whereabouts of the birth father are reasonably ascertainable, the child-placing agency or adoptive parents shall give written notice to the birth father of the existence of an adoption plan and the availability of registration with the Virginia Birth Father Registry. Such written notice shall be provided by personal service, certified mailing with proof of service, or express mailing with proof of delivery to the birth father's last known address. Registration is timely if the signed registration form is received by the Department within 10 days of personal service of the written notice or within 13 days of the certified or express mailing date of the written notice. The personal service or certified or express mailing may be completed either prior to or after the birth of the child. When written notice is provided to a putative father before the birth of the child, the putative father's registration with the Virginia Birth Father Registry shall be untimely if received by the Department more than 10 days after personal service of the written notice or more than 13 days after the certified or express mailing date of the written notice, whichever occurs first.

G. The child-placing agency or adoptive parent(s) shall give notice to a registrant who has timely registered of a placement of a child by a local board pursuant to § [63.2-900](/vacode/63.2-900/), a proceeding for adoption, or a proceeding for termination of parental rights regarding a child. Notice shall be given pursuant to the requirements of this chapter or § [16.1-277.01](/vacode/16.1-277.01/) for the appropriate adoption proceeding.

H. 1. The Department shall prepare a form for registering with the agency that shall require (i) the registrant's name, date of birth and social security number; (ii) the registrant's driver's license number and state of issuance; (iii) the registrant's home address, telephone number, and employer; (iv) the name, date of birth, ethnicity, address, and telephone number of the putative mother, if known; (v) the state of conception; (vi) the place and date of birth of the child, if known; (vii) the name and gender of the child, if known; and (viii) the signature of the registrant. No form for registering with the Virginia Birth Father Registry shall be complete unless signed by the registrant and the signed registration form is received by the Department in the manner prescribed by the Department.

2. The form shall also state that (i) timely registration entitles the registrant to notice of a proceeding for adoption of the child or termination of the registrant's parental rights, (ii) registration does not commence a proceeding to establish paternity, (iii) the information disclosed on the form may be used against the registrant to establish paternity, (iv) services to assist in establishing paternity are available to the registrant through the Department, (v) the registrant should also register in another state if conception or birth of the child occurred in another state, (vi) information on registries of other states may be available from the Department, (vii) the form is signed under penalty of perjury, and (viii) procedures exist to rescind the registration of a claim of paternity.

3. A registrant shall promptly notify the Virginia Birth Father Registry of any change in information, including change of address. The Department shall incorporate all updated information received into its records but is not required to request or otherwise pursue current or updated information for incorporation in the registry.

2006, c. [825](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0825); 2009, c. [805](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0805); 2012, c. [424](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0424); 2015, c. [531](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0531); 2017, c. [200](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0200); 2022, c. [377](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0377).

