# ยง 63.2-601.1 Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Fund established.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Fund, hereafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All donations and contributions to the Fund and such moneys as shall be appropriated by the General Assembly shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes set forth in this section. Moneys in the Fund shall be used to:

1. Supplement the assistance provided through the Department's administration of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families block grant; and

2. Assist the Commonwealth in maximizing the amount of funds available to serve the stated purposes of the TANF program by leveraging individual, corporate, and charitable donations.

B. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Commissioner. Up to 10 percent of the Fund may be used to pay the Department's expenses in administering the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Program.

C. The Department shall administer the Fund in accordance with the provisions of this section.

2011, cc. [4](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0004), [857](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0857).

