# § 63.2-1916 Notice of administrative support order; contents; hearing; modification.

The Commissioner may proceed against a noncustodial parent whose support debt has accrued or is accruing based upon subrogation to, assignment of, or authorization to enforce a support obligation. Such obligation may be created by a court order for support of a child or child and spouse or decree of divorce ordering support of a child or child and spouse. In the absence of such a court order or decree of divorce, the Commissioner may, pursuant to this chapter, proceed against a person whose support debt has accrued or is accruing based upon payment of public assistance or who has a responsibility for the support of any dependent child or children and their custodial parent. The administrative support order shall also provide that support shall continue to be paid for any child over the age of 18 who is (i) a full-time high school student, (ii) not self-supporting, and (iii) living in the home of the parent seeking or receiving child support, until such child reaches the age of 19 or graduates from high school, whichever comes first. The Commissioner shall initiate proceedings by issuing notice containing the administrative support order which shall become effective unless timely contested. The notice shall be served upon the debtor (a) in accordance with the provisions of § [8.01-296](/vacode/8.01-296/), [8.01-327](/vacode/8.01-327/) or [8.01-329](/vacode/8.01-329/) or (b) by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by electronic means, or the debtor may accept service by signing a formal waiver. A copy of the notice shall be provided to the obligee. The notice shall include the following:

1. A statement of the support debt or obligation accrued or accruing and the basis and authority under which the assessment of the debt or obligation was made. The initial administrative support order shall be effective on the date of service and the first monthly payment shall be due on the first of the month following the date of service and the first of each month thereafter. A modified administrative support order shall be effective the date that notice of the review is served on the nonrequesting party, and the first monthly payment shall be due on the first day of the month following the date of such service and on the first day of each month thereafter. In addition, an amount shall be assessed for the partial month between the effective date of the order and the date that the first monthly payment is due. The assessment for the initial partial month shall be prorated from the effective date through the end of that month, based on the current monthly obligation. All payments are to be credited to current support obligations first, with any payment in excess of the current obligation applied to arrearages, if any;

2. A statement of the name, date of birth, and last four digits of the social security number of the child or children for whom support is being sought;

3. A statement that support shall continue to be paid for any child over the age of 18 who is (i) a full-time high school student, (ii) not self-supporting, and (iii) living in the home of the party seeking or receiving child support, until such child reaches the age of 19 or graduates from high school, whichever comes first;

4. A demand for immediate payment of the support debt or obligation or, in the alternative, a demand that the debtor file an answer with the Commissioner within 10 days of the date of service of the notice stating his defenses to liability;

5. If known, the full name, date of birth, and last four digits of the social security number of each parent of the child; however, when a protective order has been issued or the Department otherwise finds reason to believe that a party is at risk of physical or emotional harm from the other party, only the name of the party at risk shall be included in the order;

6. A statement that if no answer is made on or before 10 days from the date of service of the notice, the administrative support order shall be final and enforceable, and the support debt shall be assessed and determined subject to computation, and is subject to collection action;

7. A statement that the debtor may be subject to mandatory withholding of income, the interception of state or federal tax refunds, interception of payments due to the debtor from the Commonwealth, notification of arrearage information to consumer reporting agencies, passport denial or suspension, or incarceration and that the debtor's property will be subject to lien and foreclosure, distraint, seizure and sale, an order to withhold and deliver, or withholding of income;

8. A statement that the parents shall keep the Department informed regarding access to health insurance coverage and health insurance policy information and a statement that health care coverage shall be required for the parents' dependent children if available at reasonable cost as defined in § [63.2-1900](/vacode/63.2-1900/), or pursuant to subsection A of § [63.2-1903](/vacode/63.2-1903/). If a child is enrolled in Department-sponsored health care coverage, the Department shall collect the cost of the coverage pursuant to subsection E of § [20-108.2](/vacode/20-108.2/);

9. A statement of each party's right to appeal and the procedures applicable to appeals from the decision of the Commissioner;

10. A statement that the obligor's income shall be immediately withheld to comply with this order unless the obligee, or the Department, if the obligee is receiving public assistance, and obligor agree to an alternative arrangement;

11. A statement that any determination of a support obligation under this section creates a judgment by operation of law and as such is entitled to full faith and credit in any other state or jurisdiction;

12. A statement that each party shall give the Department written notice of any change in his address, including email address, or phone number, including cell phone number, within 30 days;

13. A statement that each party shall keep the Department informed of (i) the name, telephone number, and address of his current employer; (ii) any change to his employment status; and (iii) if he has filed a claim for or is receiving benefits under the provisions of Title 60.2. The statement shall further specify that any such change in employment status or filing of a claim shall be communicated to the Department in writing within 30 days of such change or filing;

14. A statement that if any arrearages for child support, including interest or fees, exist at the time the youngest child included in the order emancipates, payments shall continue in the total amount due (current support plus amount applied toward arrearages) at the time of emancipation until all arrearages are paid;

15. A statement that a petition may be filed for suspension of any license, certificate, registration, or other authorization to engage in a profession, trade, business, occupation, or recreational activity issued by the Commonwealth to a parent as provided in § [63.2-1937](/vacode/63.2-1937/) upon a delinquency for a period of 90 days or more or in amount of $5,000 or more. The order shall indicate whether either or both parents currently hold such an authorization and, if so, the type of authorization held;

16. A statement that the Department of Motor Vehicles may suspend or refuse to renew the driving privileges of any person upon receipt of notice from the Department of Social Services that the person (i) is delinquent in the payment of child support by 90 days or in an amount of $5,000 or more or (ii) has failed to comply with a subpoena, summons, or warrant relating to paternity or child support proceedings; and

17. A statement that on and after July 1, 1994, the Department of Social Services, as provided in § [63.2-1921](/vacode/63.2-1921/) and in accordance with § [20-108.2](/vacode/20-108.2/), may initiate a review of the amount of support ordered by any court.

If no answer is received by the Commissioner within 10 days of the date of service or acceptance, the administrative support order shall be effective as provided in the notice. The Commissioner may initiate collection procedures pursuant to this chapter, Chapter 11 (§ [16.1-226](/vacode/16.1-226/) et seq.) of Title 16.1 or Title 20. The debtor and the obligee have 10 days from the date of receipt of the notice to file an answer with the Commissioner to exercise the right to an administrative hearing.

Any changes in the amount of the administrative order must be made pursuant to this section. In no event shall an administrative hearing alter or amend the amount or terms of any court order for support or decree of divorce ordering support. No administrative support order may be retroactively modified, but may be modified from the date that notice of the review has been served on the nonrequesting party. Notice of each review shall be served on the nonrequesting party (1) in accordance with the provisions of § [8.01-296](/vacode/8.01-296/), [8.01-327](/vacode/8.01-327/), or [8.01-329](/vacode/8.01-329/), (2) by certified mail, return receipt requested, (3) by electronic means, or (4) by the nonrequesting party executing a waiver. The existence of an administrative order shall not preclude either an obligor or obligee from commencing appropriate proceedings in a juvenile and domestic relations district court or a circuit court.

1985, c. 488, § 63.1-252.1; 1986, c. 594; 1987, cc. 640, 649; 1988, c. 906; 1991, cc. 651, 694; 1993, c. 534; 1994, c. [764](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0764); 1995, cc. [593](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0593), [600](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0600); 1996, cc. [879](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0879), [884](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0884), [889](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0889); 1997, cc. [796](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0796), [895](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0895); 1998, cc. [107](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0107), [885](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0885); 2002, cc. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747), [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0844); 2004, c. [204](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0204); 2006, cc. [720](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0720), [869](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0869); 2007, c. [600](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0600); 2009, cc. [706](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0706), [713](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0713); 2016, c. [29](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0029); 2020, cc. [1227](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1227), [1246](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1246); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [222](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0222).

