# ยง 63.2-1403 Contents of compacts.

A. A compact entered into pursuant to the authority conferred by this chapter shall have the following content:

1. A provision making it available for joinder by all states.

2. A provision or provisions for withdrawal from the compact upon written notice to the parties, but with a period of one year between the date of the notice and the effective date of the withdrawal.

3. A requirement that the protections afforded by or pursuant to the compact continue in force for the duration of the adoption assistance and be applicable to all children and their adoptive parents who, on the effective date of the withdrawal, are receiving adoption assistance from a party state other than the one in which they are resident and have their principal place of abode.

4. A requirement that each instance of adoption assistance to which the compact applies be covered by an adoption assistance agreement in writing between the adoptive parents and the child welfare agency of the state which undertakes to provide the adoption assistance, and further, that any such agreement be expressly for the benefit of the adopted child and enforceable by the adoptive parents and the state agency providing the adoption assistance.

5. Such other provisions as may be appropriate to implement the proper administration of the compact.

B. A compact entered into pursuant to the authority conferred by this chapter may contain the following provisions in addition to those required pursuant to subsection A:

1. Provisions establishing procedures and entitlements to medical, developmental, child care or other social services for the child in accordance with applicable laws, even though the child and the adoptive parents are in a state other than the one responsible for or providing the services or the funds to defray part or all of the costs thereof.

2. Such other provisions as may be appropriate or incidental to the proper administration of the compact.

1988, c. 154, ยง 63.1-238.9; 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747).

