# § 63.2-1706 Inspections and interviews.

A. Applicants for licensure and licensees shall at all times afford the Commissioner reasonable opportunity to inspect all of their facilities, books and records, and to interview their agents and employees and any person living or participating in such facilities, or under their custody, control, direction or supervision. Interviews conducted pursuant to this section with persons living or participating in a facility operated by or under the custody, control, direction, or supervision of an applicant for licensure or a licensee shall be (i) authorized by the person to be interviewed or his legally authorized representative and (ii) limited to discussion of issues related to the applicant's or licensee's compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including ascertaining if assessments and reassessments of residents' cognitive and physical needs are performed as required under regulations of the Board.

B. For any adult day care center issued a license or renewal thereof for a period of six months, the Commissioner shall make at least two inspections during the six-month period, one of which shall be unannounced. For any adult day care center issued a license or renewal thereof for a period of one year, the Commissioner shall make at least three inspections each year, at least two of which shall be unannounced. For any adult day care center issued a license or a renewal thereof for a period of two years, the Commissioner shall make at least two inspections each year, at least one of which shall be unannounced. For any adult day care center issued a three-year license, the Commissioner shall make at least one inspection each year, which shall be unannounced.

For any assisted living facility issued a license or renewal thereof for a period of six months, the Commissioner shall make at least two inspections during the six-month period, one of which shall be unannounced. For any assisted living facility issued a license or renewal thereof for a period of one, two, or three years, the Commissioner shall make at least one inspection each year, which shall be unannounced, and as needed based on compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

C. All licensed child welfare agencies shall be inspected not less than twice annually, and one of those inspections shall be unannounced.

D. The activities, services and facilities of each applicant for renewal of his license as an assisted living facility, adult day care center or child welfare agency shall be subject to an inspection or examination by the Commissioner to determine if he is in compliance with current regulations of the Board.

E. For any licensed assisted living facility, adult day care center or child welfare agency, the Commissioner may authorize such other announced or unannounced inspections as the Commissioner considers appropriate.

Code 1950, §§ 63-224, 63-247; 1954, c. 259; 1968, c. 578, §§ 63.1-177, 63.1-210; 1972, c. 540, § 63.1-196.1; 1973, c. 227; 1979, c. 73; 1987, c. 698; 1988, cc. 61, 151; 1991, c. 532; 1992, cc. 356, 666, § 63.1-194.7; 1993, cc. 957, 993; 1999, c. [964](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0964); 2000, c. [130](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0130); 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747); 2010, c. [603](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0603); 2012, cc. [803](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803), [835](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835).

