# § 63.2-611 Case management; support services; transitional support services.

A. The Commissioner, through the local departments, with such funds as appropriated, shall offer families participating in VIEW intensive case management services throughout the family's participation in VIEW. Case management services shall include initial assessment of the full range of services that will be needed by each family including testing and evaluation, development of the individualized agreement of personal responsibility, and periodic reassessment of service needs and the agreement of personal responsibility. It shall be the goal of the Department to have a statewide intensive case management ratio not higher than the statewide average ratio in Title IV-F of the Social Security Act Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training Program State Plan as the ratio existed on July 1, 1995.

B. Local departments are authorized to provide services to VIEW families throughout the family's participation in VIEW subject to regulations adopted by the Board, including:

1. Child care for the children of participants if:

a. The participant is employed and child-care services are required to enable the continued employment of the participant;

b. Child-care services are required to enable a participant to receive job placement, job training or education services; or

c. The participant is otherwise eligible for child care pursuant to Board regulations.

2. Transportation that will enable parental employment or participation in services required by the agreement of personal responsibility.

3. Job counseling, education and training, and job search assistance consistent with the purposes of VIEW.

4. Medical assistance.

C. A participant whose TANF financial assistance is terminated, either voluntarily or involuntarily, shall receive the following services for up to 12 months after termination, if needed:

1. Assistance with child care if such assistance enables the individual to work or the individual is enrolled in an accredited public institution of higher education or other postsecondary school licensed or certified by the Board of Education or the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia and is taking courses as part of a curriculum that leads to a postsecondary credential, such as a degree or an industry-recognized credential, certification, or license;

2. Assistance with transportation, if such transportation enables the individual to work;

3. Medical assistance, including transitional medical assistance for families with a working parent who becomes ineligible for TANF financial assistance because of increased earnings according to policies of the Virginia Department of Medical Assistance Services; and

4. Financial assistance of $50 per month, if the participant is employed and is working at least 30 hours per week or more at the time of TANF closure and remains employed and continues to work at least 30 hours per week or more.

D. The Department or local departments may purchase or otherwise acquire motor vehicles from the centralized fleet of motor vehicles controlled by the Commissioner of Highways under Article 7 (§ [2.2-1173](/vacode/2.2-1173/) et seq.) of Chapter 11 of Title 2.2 and sell or otherwise transfer such vehicles to TANF recipients or former recipients. Purchases, sales, and other transfers of vehicles under this subsection shall not be subject to the provisions of the Virginia Public Procurement Act (§ [2.2-4300](/vacode/2.2-4300/) et seq.), or the provisions of §§ [2.2-1124](/vacode/2.2-1124/), [2.2-1153](/vacode/2.2-1153/), [2.2-1156](/vacode/2.2-1156/), and [2.2-1177](/vacode/2.2-1177/) relating to the sale, purchase, and transfer of surplus motor vehicles and other surplus state property.

E. Nothing in this section shall be construed or interpreted to create a cause of action or administrative claim based upon a right or entitlement to any specific services or an exemption or waiver from any provision of VIEW.

1994, cc. [858](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0858), [951](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0951), § 63.1-133.46; 1995, c. [450](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0450); 1999, c. [910](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0910); 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747); 2007, c. [568](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0568); 2019, cc. [166](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0166), [218](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0218).

