# ยง 63.2-1404 Medical assistance; penalties.

A. A child with special needs resident in this Commonwealth who is the subject of an adoption assistance agreement with another state shall be entitled to receive a medical assistance identification from this Commonwealth upon the filing in the Department of a certified copy of the adoption assistance agreement obtained from the adoption assistance state. In accordance with regulations of the Department, the adoptive parents shall be required at least annually to show that the agreement is still in force or has been renewed.

B. The Department of Medical Assistance Services shall consider the holder of medical assistance identification pursuant to this section as any other holder of a medical assistance identification under the laws of this Commonwealth and shall process and make payment on claims on account of such holder in the same manner and pursuant to the same conditions and procedures as for other recipients of medical assistance.

C. The Department shall provide coverage and benefits not provided by the state plan for medical assistance in the residence state for a child who is in another state and who is covered by an adoption assistance agreement made in Virginia to the extent required by the agreement. However, there shall be no reimbursement for services or benefit amounts covered under any insurance or other third party medical contract or arrangement held by the child or the adoptive parents. The Department of Medical Assistance Services shall adopt regulations implementing this subsection. The additional coverages and benefit amounts provided pursuant to this subsection shall be for services for which there is no federal financial contribution or which, if federally aided, are not provided by the residence state. Such regulations shall include procedures to be followed in obtaining prior approvals for services when such approval is required for the assistance.

D. The submission of any claim for payment or reimbursement for services or benefits pursuant to this section or the making of any statement in connection therewith, which claim or statement the maker knows or should know to be false, misleading or fraudulent shall be punishable as perjury and shall also be subject to a fine of not more than $10,000, or imprisonment for not more than two years, or both.

E. The provisions of this section shall apply only to medical assistance for children under adoption assistance agreements from states that have entered into a compact with this Commonwealth under which the other state provides medical assistance to children with special needs under adoption assistance agreements made by this Commonwealth. All other children entitled to medical assistance pursuant to adoption assistance agreements entered into by this Commonwealth shall be eligible to receive it in accordance with the laws and procedures applicable thereto.

1988, c. 154, ยง 63.1-238.10; 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747).

