# § 63.2-908 Permanent foster care placement.

A. Permanent foster care placement means the place in which a child has been placed pursuant to the provisions of §§ [63.2-900](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-900/), [63.2-903](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-903/) and this section with the expectation and agreement between the placing agency and the place of permanent foster care that the child shall remain in the placement until he reaches the age of majority unless modified by court order or unless removed pursuant to § [16.1-251](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-251/) or § [63.2-1517](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-1517/). A permanent foster care placement may be a place of residence of any natural person or persons deemed appropriate to meet a child's needs on a long-term basis.

B. A local department or a licensed child-placing agency shall have authority pursuant to a court order to place a child who is 16 years of age or older over whom it has legal custody in a permanent foster care placement where the child shall remain until attaining majority or thereafter, until the age of 21 years, if such placement is a requisite to providing funds for the care of such child, so long as the child is a participant in an educational, treatment or training program approved pursuant to regulations of the Board. No such child shall be removed from the physical custody of the foster parents in the permanent care placement except upon order of the court or pursuant to § [16.1-251](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/16.1-251/) or § [63.2-1517](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-1517/). The department or agency so placing a child shall retain legal custody of the child. A court shall not order that a child be placed in permanent foster care unless it finds that (i) diligent efforts have been made by the local department to place the child with his natural parents and such efforts have been unsuccessful, and (ii) diligent efforts have been made by the local department to place the child for adoption and such efforts have been unsuccessful or adoption is not a reasonable alternative for a long-term placement for the child under the circumstances.

C. Unless modified by the court order, the foster parent in the permanent foster care placement shall have the authority to consent to surgery, entrance into the armed services, marriage, application for a motor vehicle and driver's license, application for admission into an institution of higher education, and any other such activities that require parental consent and shall have the responsibility for informing the placing department or agency of any such actions.

D. Any child placed in a permanent foster care placement by a local department shall, with the cooperation of the foster parents with whom the permanent foster care placement has been made, receive the same services and benefits as any other child in foster care pursuant to §§ [63.2-319](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-319/), [63.2-900](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-900/) and [63.2-903](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/63.2-903/) and any other applicable provisions of law.

E. The Board shall establish minimum standards for the utilization, supervision and evaluation of permanent foster care placements.

F. The rate of payment for permanent foster care placements by a local department shall be in accordance with standards and rates established by the Board. The rate of payment for such placements by other licensed child-placing agencies shall be in accordance with standards and rates established by the individual agency.

G. If the child has a continuing involvement with his natural parents, the natural parents should be involved in the planning for a permanent placement. The court order placing the child in a permanent placement shall include a specification of the nature and frequency of visiting arrangements with the natural parents.

H. Any change in the placement of a child in permanent foster care or the responsibilities of the foster parents for that child shall be made only by order of the court which ordered the placement pursuant to a petition filed by the foster parents, local department, licensed child-placing agency or other appropriate party.

1977, c. 559, § 63.1-206.1; 1978, c. 671; 1984, c. 70; 2002, c. [747](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0747); 2016, c. [631](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0631).

