# § 64.2-2020 Annual reports by guardians.

A. A guardian shall file an annual report in compliance with the filing deadlines in § [64.2-1305](/vacode/64.2-1305/) with the local department of social services for the jurisdiction where the incapacitated person then resides. The annual report shall be on a form prepared by the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court and shall be accompanied by a filing fee of $5. To the extent practicable, the annual report shall be formatted in a manner to encourage standardized and detailed responses from guardians. The local department shall retain the fee in the jurisdiction where the fee is collected for use in the provision of services to adults in need of protection. Within 60 days of receipt of the annual report, the local department shall file a copy of the annual report with the clerk of the circuit court that appointed the guardian, to be placed with the court papers pertaining to the guardianship case. Twice each year the local department shall file with the clerk of the circuit court a list of all guardians who are more than 90 days delinquent in filing an annual report as required by this section. If the guardian is also a conservator, a settlement of accounts shall also be filed with the commissioner of accounts as provided in § [64.2-1305](/vacode/64.2-1305/).

B. The annual report to the local department of social services shall include:

1. A description of the current mental, physical, and social condition of the incapacitated person, including any change in diagnosis or assessment of any such condition of such incapacitated person by any medical provider since the last report;

2. A description of the incapacitated person's living arrangements during the reported period, including a specific assessment of the adequacy of such living arrangement;

3. The medical, educational, vocational, social, recreational, and any other professional services and activities provided to the incapacitated person and the guardian's opinion as to the adequacy of the incapacitated person's care. The information required by this subdivision shall include (i) the specific names of the medical providers that have treated the incapacitated person and a description of the frequency or number of times the incapacitated person was seen by such providers; (ii) the date and location of and reason for any hospitalization of such incapacitated person; and (iii) a description of the educational, vocational, social, and recreational activities in which such incapacitated person participated;

4. A statement of whether the guardian agrees with the current treatment or habilitation plan;

5. A statement of whether the incapacitated person has been an alleged victim in a report of abuse, neglect, or exploitation made pursuant to Article 2 (§ [63.2-1603](/vacode/63.2-1603/) et seq.) of Chapter 16 of Title 63.2, to the extent known, and whether there are any other indications of abuse, neglect, or exploitation of such incapacitated person;

6. A recommendation as to the need for continued guardianship and any recommended changes in the scope of the guardianship;

7. The name of any persons whose access to communicate, visit, or interact with the incapacitated person has been restricted and the reasons for such restriction;

8. A self-assessment by the guardian as to whether he feels he is able to continue to carry out the powers and duties imposed upon him by § [64.2-2019](/vacode/64.2-2019/) and as specified in the court's order of appointment pursuant to § [64.2-2009](/vacode/64.2-2009/);

9. Unless the incapacitated person resides with the guardian, a statement of the frequency and nature of any (i) in-person visits from the guardian with the incapacitated person over the course of the previous year and (ii) visits over the course of the previous year from a designee who is directly supervised or contracted by the guardian, including the name of the designee performing such visit. If any visit described in this section is made virtually, the guardian shall include such information in the annual report;

10. If no visit is made within a six-month period, the guardian shall describe any challenges or limitations in completing such visit;

11. A general description of the activities taken on by the guardian for the benefit of the incapacitated person during the past year;

12. Any other information deemed necessary by the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia or the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services to understand the condition, treatment, and well-being of the incapacitated person;

13. Any other information useful in the opinion of the guardian; and

14. The compensation requested and the reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the guardian.

The guardian shall certify by signing under oath that the information contained in the annual report is true and correct to the best of his knowledge. If a guardian makes a false entry or statement in the annual report, he shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $500. Such penalty shall be collected by the attorney for the Commonwealth or the county or city attorney, and the proceeds shall be deposited into the general fund.

C. If the local department of social services files notice that the annual report has not been timely filed in accordance with subsection A with the clerk of the circuit court, the court may issue a summons or rule to show cause why the guardian has failed to file such annual report.

1997, c. [921](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0921), § [37](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0037).1-137.2; 1998, c. [582](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0582); 2000, c. [198](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0198); 2003, c. [527](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0527); 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716), § [37](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0037).2-1021; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614); 2013, c. [133](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0133); 2019, c. [443](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0443); 2020, cc. [190](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0190), [372](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0372); 2022, c. [381](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0381).

