# § 64.2-2021 General duties and liabilities of conservator.

A. At all times the conservator shall exercise reasonable care, diligence, and prudence and shall act in the best interest of the incapacitated person. To the extent known to him, a conservator shall consider the expressed desires and personal values of the incapacitated person.

B. Subject to any conditions or limitations set forth in the conservatorship order, the conservator shall take care of and preserve the estate of the incapacitated person and manage it to the best advantage. The conservator shall apply the income from the estate, or so much as may be necessary, to the payment of the debts of the incapacitated person, including payment of reasonable compensation to himself and to any guardian appointed, and to the maintenance of the person and of his legal dependents, if any, and, to the extent that the income is not sufficient, he shall so apply the corpus of the estate.

C. A conservator shall, to the extent feasible, encourage the incapacitated person to participate in decisions, to act on his own behalf, and to develop or regain the capacity to manage the estate and his financial affairs. A conservator also shall consider the size of the estate, the probable duration of the conservatorship, the incapacitated person's accustomed manner of living, other resources known to the conservator to be available, and the recommendations of the guardian.

D. A conservator stands in a fiduciary relationship to the incapacitated person for whom he was appointed conservator and may be held personally liable for a breach of any fiduciary duty. Unless otherwise provided in the contract, a conservator is personally liable on a contract entered into in a fiduciary capacity in the course of administration of the estate, unless he reveals the representative capacity and identifies the estate in the contract. Claims based upon contracts entered into by a conservator in a fiduciary capacity, obligations arising from ownership or control of the estate, or torts committed in the course of administration of the estate may be asserted against the estate by proceeding against the conservator in a fiduciary capacity, whether or not the conservator is personally liable therefor. A successor conservator is not personally liable for the contracts or actions of a predecessor.

E. A conservator shall comply with and be subject to the requirements imposed upon fiduciaries generally under Part A (§ [64.2-1200](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1200/) et seq.) of this subtitle, specifically including the duty to account set forth in § [64.2-1305](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-1305/).

1997, c. [921](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0921), § 37.1-137.3; 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716), § 37.2-1022; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614).

