# ยง 64.2-545 Transfer of assets to administrator de bonis non; administration of assets.

A. If the powers of a personal representative have ceased and there is an administrator de bonis non of the decedent's estate, the personal representative may pay and deliver to such administrator de bonis non, with the consent of the court or clerk before which the administrator de bonis non qualified, the assets of the decedent, whether converted or not, for which such former personal representative is responsible. The court or clerk shall not consent to the payment and delivery of such assets to the administrator de bonis non unless the administrator de bonis non gives a bond sufficient to cover the additional assets to be paid or delivered to him. The administrator de bonis non shall administer such assets paid or delivered to him as assets received in due course of administration. The administrator de bonis non shall provide a receipt for such assets in the form of a voucher in the settlement of the accounts of the former personal representative. The former personal representative shall not be liable for the assets lawfully paid or delivered to the administrator de bonis non.

B. The administrator de bonis non may bring an action against the former personal representative or his estate for mismanagement or to compel the payment and delivery to the administrator de bonis non of the assets of the decedent that were wrongfully converted by the former personal representative.

C. Nothing contained in this section shall (i) limit the liability of the former personal representative and his sureties for any breach of duty committed by him with respect to the assets of the decedent's estate before they were paid over and delivered to the administrator de bonis non by him or (ii) bar the beneficiaries, creditors, or any other parties in interest from bringing any action against the former personal representative for his acts or omissions while serving as the personal representative.

Code 1950, ยง 64-156; 1968, c. 656, ยง 64.1-166; 1991, c. 58; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614).

