# § 64.2-2000 Definitions.

As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Advance directive" shall have the same meaning as provided in § [54.1-2982](/vacode/54.1-2982/).

"Annual report" means the report required to be filed by a guardian pursuant to § [64.2-2020](/vacode/64.2-2020/).

"Conservator" means a person appointed by the court who is responsible for managing the estate and financial affairs of an incapacitated person and, where the context plainly indicates, includes a "limited conservator" or a "temporary conservator." "Conservator" includes (i) a local or regional program designated by the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services as a public conservator pursuant to Article 6 (§ [51.5-149](/vacode/51.5-149/) et seq.) of Chapter 14 of Title 51.5 or (ii) any local or regional tax-exempt charitable organization established pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to provide conservatorial services to incapacitated persons. Such tax-exempt charitable organization shall not be a provider of direct services to the incapacitated person. If a tax-exempt charitable organization has been designated by the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services as a public conservator, it may also serve as a conservator for other individuals.

"Estate" includes both real and personal property.

"Facility" means a state or licensed hospital, training center, psychiatric hospital, or other type of residential or outpatient mental health or mental retardation facility. When modified by the word "state," "facility" means a state hospital or training center operated by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, including the buildings and land associated with it.

"Guardian" means a person appointed by the court who has the powers and duties set out in § [64.2-2019](/vacode/64.2-2019/), or § [63.2-1609](/vacode/63.2-1609/) if applicable, and who is responsible for the personal affairs of an incapacitated person, including responsibility for making decisions regarding the person's support, care, health, safety, habilitation, education, therapeutic treatment, and, if not inconsistent with an order of involuntary admission, residence. Where the context plainly indicates, the term includes a "limited guardian" or a "temporary guardian." The term includes (i) a local or regional program designated by the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services as a public guardian pursuant to Article 6 (§ [51.5-149](/vacode/51.5-149/) et seq.) of Chapter 14 of Title 51.5 or (ii) any local or regional tax-exempt charitable organization established pursuant to § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to provide guardian services to incapacitated persons. Such tax-exempt charitable organization shall not be a provider of direct services to the incapacitated person. If a tax-exempt charitable organization has been designated by the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services as a public guardian, it may also serve as a guardian for other individuals.

"Guardian ad litem" means an attorney appointed by the court to represent the interests of the respondent and whose duties include evaluation of the petition for guardianship or conservatorship and filing a report with the court pursuant to § [64.2-2003](/vacode/64.2-2003/).

"Incapacitated person" means an adult who has been found by a court to be incapable of receiving and evaluating information effectively or responding to people, events, or environments to such an extent that the individual lacks the capacity to (i) meet the essential requirements for his health, care, safety, or therapeutic needs without the assistance or protection of a guardian or (ii) manage property or financial affairs or provide for his support or for the support of his legal dependents without the assistance or protection of a conservator. A finding that the individual displays poor judgment alone shall not be considered sufficient evidence that the individual is an incapacitated person within the meaning of this definition. A finding that a person is incapacitated shall be construed as a finding that the person is "mentally incompetent" as that term is used in Article II, Section 1 of the Constitution of Virginia and Title 24.2 unless the court order entered pursuant to this chapter specifically provides otherwise.

"Individualized education plan" or "IEP" means a plan or program developed annually to ensure that a child who has a disability identified under the law and is attending an elementary or secondary educational institution receives specialized instruction and related services as provided by 20 U.S.C. § 1414.

"Individual receiving services" or "individual" means a current direct recipient of public or private mental health, developmental, or substance abuse treatment, rehabilitation, or habilitation services and includes the terms "consumer," "patient," "resident," "recipient," or "client."

"Limited conservator" means a person appointed by the court who has only those responsibilities for managing the estate and financial affairs of an incapacitated person as specified in the order of appointment.

"Limited guardian" means a person appointed by the court who has only those responsibilities for the personal affairs of an incapacitated person as specified in the order of appointment.

"Mental illness" means a disorder of thought, mood, emotion, perception, or orientation that significantly impairs judgment, behavior, capacity to recognize reality, or ability to address basic life necessities and requires care and treatment for the health, safety, or recovery of the individual or for the safety of others.

"Petition" means the document filed with a circuit court to initiate a proceeding to appoint a guardian or conservator.

"Power of attorney" has the same meaning ascribed to it in § [64.2-1600](/vacode/64.2-1600/).

"Property" includes both real and personal property.

"Respondent" means an allegedly incapacitated person for whom a petition for guardianship or conservatorship has been filed.

"Supported decision-making agreement" has the same meaning ascribed to it in § [37.2-314.3](/vacode/37.2-314.3/).

"Temporary conservator" means a person appointed by a court for a limited duration of time as specified in the order of appointment.

"Temporary guardian" means a person appointed by a court for a limited duration of time as specified in the order of appointment.

"Transition plan" means the plan that is required as part of the IEP used to help students and families prepare for the future after the student reaches the age of majority.

1997, c. [921](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0921), § 37.1-134.6; 1998, cc. [582](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0582), [787](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0787); 2004, c. [858](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0858); 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716), § 37.2-1000; 2006, c. [724](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0724); 2012, cc. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614), [803](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0803), [835](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0835); 2020, c. [855](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0855); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [232](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0232).

