# § 64.2-2012 Petition for restoration, modification, or termination; effects.

A. Upon petition by the incapacitated person, the guardian or conservator, or any other person or upon motion of the court, the court may (i) declare the incapacitated person restored to capacity; (ii) modify the type of appointment or the areas of protection, management, or assistance previously granted or require a new bond; (iii) terminate the guardianship or conservatorship; (iv) order removal of the guardian or conservator as provided in § [64.2-1410](/vacode/64.2-1410/); or (v) order other appropriate relief. The fee for filing the petition shall be as provided in subdivision A 42 of § [17.1-275](/vacode/17.1-275/).

B. In the case of a petition for modification to expand the scope of a guardianship or conservatorship, the incapacitated person shall be entitled to a jury, upon request. Notice of the hearing and a copy of the petition shall be personally served on the incapacitated person and mailed to other persons entitled to notice pursuant to § [64.2-2004](/vacode/64.2-2004/). The court shall appoint a guardian ad litem for the incapacitated person and may appoint one or more licensed physicians or psychologists or licensed professionals skilled in the assessment and treatment of the physical or mental conditions of the incapacitated person, as alleged in the petition, to conduct an evaluation. Upon the filing of any other such petition or upon the motion of the court, and after reasonable notice to the incapacitated person, any guardian or conservator, any attorney of record, any person entitled to notice of the filing of an original petition as provided in § [64.2-2004](/vacode/64.2-2004/), and any other person or entity as the court may require, the court shall hold a hearing.

C. An order appointing a guardian or conservator may be revoked, modified, or terminated upon a finding that it is in the best interests of the incapacitated person and that:

1. The incapacitated person is no longer in need of the assistance or protection of a guardian or conservator;

2. The extent of protection, management, or assistance previously granted is either excessive or insufficient considering the current need of the incapacitated person;

3. The incapacitated person's understanding or capacity to manage his estate and financial affairs or to provide for his health, care, or safety has so changed as to warrant such action; or

4. Circumstances are such that the guardianship or conservatorship is no longer necessary or is insufficient.

D. The court shall declare the person restored to capacity and discharge the guardian or conservator if, on the basis of evidence offered at the hearing, the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the incapacitated person has substantially regained his ability to (i) care for his person in the case of a guardianship or (ii) manage and handle his estate in the case of a conservatorship.

In the case of a petition for modification of a guardianship or conservatorship, the court shall order (a) limiting or reducing the powers of the guardian or conservator if the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that it is in the best interests of the incapacitated person to do so, or (b) increasing or expanding the powers of the guardian or conservator if the court finds by clear and convincing evidence that it is in the best interests of the incapacitated person to do so.

The court may order a new bond or other appropriate relief upon finding by a preponderance of the evidence that the guardian or conservator is not acting in the best interests of the incapacitated person or of the estate.

E. The powers of a guardian or conservator shall terminate upon the death, resignation, or removal of the guardian or conservator or upon the termination of the guardianship or conservatorship.

A guardianship or conservatorship shall terminate upon the death of the incapacitated person or, if ordered by the court, following a hearing on the petition of any interested person.

F. The court may allow reasonable compensation from the estate of the incapacitated person to any guardian ad litem, attorney, or evaluator appointed pursuant to this section. Any compensation allowed shall be taxed as costs of the proceeding.

1997, c. [921](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0921), § 37.1-134.16; 2005, c. [716](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0716), § 37.2-1012; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [427](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0427).

