# § 64.2-550 Proceedings for receiving proof of debts by commissioners of accounts.

A. A commissioner of accounts who has for settlement the accounts of a personal representative of a decedent shall, when requested to so do by a personal representative or any creditor, legatee, or distributee of a decedent, or may at any other time determined by the commissioner of accounts, even though no accounting is pending, conduct a hearing for receiving proof of debts and demands against the decedent or the decedent's estate. The commissioner of accounts shall publish notice of the hearing at least 10 days before the date set for the hearing in a newspaper published or having general circulation in the jurisdiction where the personal representative qualified. and shall also post a notice of the time and place of the hearing at the front door of the courthouse of the court of the jurisdiction where the personal representative qualified. The commissioner of accounts may adjourn the hearing from time to time as necessary.

B. The personal representative shall give written notice by personal service or by regular, certified, or registered mail at least 10 days before the date set for the hearing to any claimant of a disputed claim that is known to the personal representative at the last address of the claimant known to the personal representative. The notice shall inform the claimant of his right to attend the hearing and present his case, his right to obtain another hearing date if the commissioner of accounts finds the initial date inappropriate, and the fact that the claimant will be bound by any adverse ruling. The personal representative shall also inform the claimant of his right to file exceptions with the circuit court in the event of an adverse ruling. The personal representative shall file proof of any mailing or service of notice with the commissioner of accounts.

C. The commissioner of accounts may direct the personal representative, the claimant, or both of them to institute a proceeding in the circuit court to establish the validity or invalidity of any claim or demand that the commissioner of accounts deems not otherwise sufficiently proved.

Code 1950, §§ 64-161, 64-162; 1966, c. 335; 1968, cc. 385, 656, §§ 64.1-171, 64.1-172; 1981, c. 484; 1989, c. 492; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614).

