# § 64.2-2603 Power to disclaim; general requirements; when irrevocable.

A. A person may disclaim in whole or in part, any interest in or power over property, including a power of appointment. A person may disclaim the interest or power even if its creator imposed a spendthrift provision or similar restriction on transfer or a restriction or limitation on the right to disclaim.

B. Except to the extent a fiduciary's right to disclaim is expressly restricted or limited by another statute of the Commonwealth or by the instrument creating the fiduciary relationship, a fiduciary may disclaim, in whole or in part, any interest in or power over property, including a power of appointment, whether acting in a personal or representative capacity. A fiduciary may disclaim the interest or power even if its creator imposed a spendthrift provision or similar restriction on transfer or a restriction or limitation on the right to disclaim, or an instrument other than the instrument that created the fiduciary relationship imposed a restriction or limitation on the right to disclaim.

C. A custodial parent of a minor for whom no guardian of the property has been appointed may disclaim, in whole or in part, an interest in or power over property, including a power of appointment, that, but for the custodial parent's disclaimer, would have passed to the minor as the result of another disclaimer. The custodial parent may disclaim the interest or power even if its creator imposed a spendthrift provision or similar restriction on transfer or a restriction or limitation on the right to disclaim.

D. To be effective, a disclaimer shall be in writing or other record, declare the disclaimer, describe the interest or power disclaimed, be signed by the person making the disclaimer, and be delivered or filed in the manner provided in § [64.2-2610](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-2610/). In this subsection, "record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.

E. A partial disclaimer may be expressed as a fraction, percentage, monetary amount, term of years, limitation of power, or any other interest or estate in the property.

F. A disclaimer becomes irrevocable when it is delivered or filed pursuant to § [64.2-2610](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-2610/) or when it becomes effective as provided in §§ [64.2-2604](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-2604/) through [64.2-2609](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/64.2-2609/), whichever occurs later.

G. A disclaimer made under this chapter is not a transfer, assignment, or release.

2003, c. [253](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0253), § 64.1-196.4; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614).

