# § 64.2-632 Effect of transfer on death deed at transferor's death.

A. Except as otherwise provided in the transfer on death deed, in this section, in § [64.2-302](/vacode/64.2-302/) or Article 1.1 (§ [64.2-308.1](/vacode/64.2-308.1/) et seq.) of Chapter 3, as applicable, or in Chapter 22 (§ [64.2-2200](/vacode/64.2-2200/) et seq.) or 25 (§ [64.2-2500](/vacode/64.2-2500/) et seq.), on the death of the transferor, the following rules apply to property that is the subject of a transfer on death deed and owned by the transferor at death:

1. Subject to subdivision 2, the interest in the property is transferred to and vests in the designated beneficiary at the death of the transferor in accordance with the deed.

2. The interest of a designated beneficiary is contingent on the designated beneficiary surviving the transferor. The interest of a designated beneficiary that fails to survive the transferor lapses.

3. Subject to subdivision 4, concurrent interests are transferred to the beneficiaries in equal and undivided shares with no right of survivorship.

4. If the transferor has identified two or more designated beneficiaries to receive concurrent interests in the property, the share of one that lapses or fails for any reason is transferred to the other, or to the others in proportion to the interest of each in the remaining part of the property held concurrently.

5. If, after making a transfer on death deed, the transferor is divorced a vinculo matrimonii or his marriage is annulled, the divorce or annulment revokes any transfer to a former spouse as designated beneficiary unless the transfer on death deed expressly provides otherwise.

B. Subject to Chapter 6 (§ [55.1-600](/vacode/55.1-600/) et seq.) of Title 55.1, a beneficiary takes the property subject to all conveyances, encumbrances, assignments, contracts, mortgages, liens, and other interests to which the property is subject at the transferor's death. For purposes of this subsection and Chapter 6 (§ [55.1-600](/vacode/55.1-600/) et seq.) of Title 55.1, the transfer and conveyance of the property subject to the transfer on death deed shall be deemed to be effective at the transferor's death.

C. If a transferor is a joint owner and is:

1. Survived by one or more other joint owners, the property that is the subject of a transfer on death deed belongs to the surviving joint owner or owners with right of survivorship but remains subject to the naming of the designated beneficiary in the transfer on death deed; or

2. The last surviving joint owner, the transfer on death deed is effective.

D. A transfer on death deed transfers property without covenant or warranty of title even if the deed contains a contrary provision.

2013, c. [390](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0390); 2016, cc. [187](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0187), [269](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0269).

