# ยง 64.2-100 Definitions.

As used in this title, unless the context otherwise requires:

"Bona fide purchaser" means a purchaser of property for value who has acted in the transaction in good faith. Notice of a seller's marital status, or notice of the existence of a premarital or marital agreement, does not affect the status of a bona fide purchaser. A "purchaser" is one who acquires property by sale, lease, discount, negotiation, mortgage, pledge, or lien or who otherwise deals with property in a voluntary transaction, other than a gift. A purchaser gives "value" for property acquired in return for a binding commitment to extend credit to the transferor or another as security for or in total or partial satisfaction of a pre-existing claim, or in return for any other consideration sufficient to support a simple contract.

"Fiduciary" includes a guardian, committee, trustee, executor, conservator, or personal representative.

"Personal representative" includes the executor under a will or the administrator of the estate of a decedent, the administrator of such estate with the will annexed, the administrator of such estate unadministered by a former representative, whether there is a will or not, any person who is under the order of a circuit court to take into his possession the estate of a decedent for administration, and every other curator of a decedent's estate, for or against whom suits may be brought for causes of action that accrued to or against the decedent.

"Trustee" means a trustee under a probated will or an inter vivos trust instrument.

"Will" includes any testament, codicil, exercise of a power of appointment by will or by a writing in the nature of a will, or any other testamentary disposition.

Code 1950, ยง 64-47; 1968, c. 656, ยง 64.1-45; 1992, cc. 617, 647, ยง 64.1-01; 2012, c. [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614).

