# ยง 65.2-200 Industrial Commission continued as the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission; number, election and terms of members; vacancies; Chairman; members to devote entire time to office.

A. The Industrial Commission of Virginia is continued and shall hereafter be known as the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission. All powers and duties conferred and imposed upon the Industrial Commission by any other law are hereby conferred upon and vested in the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission.

B. The Commission shall consist of three members, one of whom shall be chosen by the joint vote of the two houses of the General Assembly convened in an even-numbered year, and who shall serve for terms of six years.

C. Whenever a vacancy in the Commission occurs or exists when the General Assembly is in session, the General Assembly shall elect a successor for the unexpired term. If the General Assembly is not in session, the Governor shall forthwith appoint pro tempore a qualified person to fill the vacancy for a term ending thirty days after the commencement of the next session of the General Assembly, and the General Assembly shall elect a successor for the unexpired term.

D. Not more than one member of the Commission shall be a person who on account of his previous vocation, employment or affiliation shall be classified as a representative of employers, and not more than one such appointee shall be a person who on account of his previous vocation, employment or affiliation shall be classed as a representative of employees. The Commission thus composed shall elect one of its number chairman for a term of three years commencing on July 1, 1979, and each succeeding three years thereafter. Each member of the Commission shall devote his entire time to the duties of his office and shall not hold any position of trust or profit or engage in any occupation or business interfering or inconsistent with his duties as such member.

Code 1950, ยง 65-9; 1954, c. 233; 1968, c. 660, ยง 65.1-10; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 70; 1979, c. 459; 1991, c. 355; 2006, c. [838](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0838).

