# § 65.2-701 Agreement as to compensation; penalty.

A. If after injury or death, the employer and the injured employee or his dependents reach an agreement in regard to compensation or in compromise of a claim for compensation under this title, a memorandum of the agreement in the form prescribed by the Commission shall be filed with the Commission for approval. The agreement may be prepared by the employee, the employer or the compensation carrier. If approved, the agreement shall be binding, and an award of compensation entered upon such agreement shall be for all purposes enforceable as provided by § [65.2-710](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/65.2-710/). If not approved, the same agreement shall be void. Such agreement may be approved only when the Commission, or any member thereof, is clearly of the opinion that the best interests of the employee or his dependents will be served thereby. The approval of such agreement shall bind infant or incapacitated dependents affected thereby. Any agreement entered into during the pendency of an appeal to the Court of Appeals shall be effective only with the approval of the Commission as herein provided.

B. An employer or insurance carrier which fails to file a memorandum of such agreement with the Commission within fourteen calendar days of the date of its complete written execution as indicated thereon may be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000 and to any other appropriate sanctions of the Commission.

C. Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to prevent settlements made by and between the employee and employer, but rather to encourage them, so long as the amount of compensation and the time and manner of payment are approved by the Commission. A copy of such settlement agreement shall be filed with the Commission by the employer.

Code 1950, §§ 65-41, 65-90; 1954, c. 518; 1960, c. 299; 1968, c. 660, §§ 65.1-45, 65.1-93; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 156; 1984, c. 703; 1989, c. 438; 1991, cc. 97, 355; 1997, c. [801](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0801).

