# § 65.2-202 Subpoena powers of the Commission; production of records and papers.

A. The Commission or any member or deputy commissioner shall have authority to enforce the attendance of all parties in interest and of witnesses and the production and examination of books, papers and records and to punish for contempt or disobedience of its orders as is vested in courts and judges by § [18.2-456](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-456/), or Chapter 21 (§ [19.2-339](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/19.2-339/) et seq.) of Title 19.2. Such attendance, production, and examination shall be required by subpoena of the Commission upon timely request therefor by any party to a proceeding before it, unless the Commission finds that the issuance of such subpoena is for dilatory purposes, would cause substantial inconvenience to such witnesses, or is not likely to produce significant relevant evidence.

B. The county or city sheriff or town sergeant, and their respective deputies, shall serve subpoenas of the Commission or its deputies and shall receive the same fees as are now provided by law for like civil actions. Each witness who appears in obedience to such subpoena of the Commission shall receive for attendance the fees and mileage for witnesses in civil cases in courts.

C. The clerk of any court of record shall, upon the application of any party in interest to a proceeding pending under this title, issue a subpoena for the attendance at such proceeding of any witness whose testimony is sought. The return of any subpoena so issued shall be made to the Commission, which shall enforce the attendance of any such witness at such proceeding.

Code 1950, §§ 65-17 through 65-18.1; 1952, c. 470; 1968, c. 660, §§ 65.1-19 through 65.1-21; 1970, c. 470; 1971, Ex. Sess., c. 7; 1981, c. 531; 1991, c. 355.

