# ยง 67-1402 (Repealed effective October 1, 2021) Purposes; powers of Authority.

A. The Authority is established for the purposes of making the Commonwealth a national and global leader in nuclear energy and serving as an interdisciplinary study, research, and information resource for the Commonwealth on nuclear energy issues.

B. The Authority is granted all powers necessary or convenient for the carrying out of its statutory purposes, including, but not limited to, the following rights, powers, and duties to:

1. Adopt, use, and alter at will a corporate seal;

2. Acquire, purchase, hold, use, lease, or otherwise dispose of property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, or any interest therein necessary or desirable for carrying out the purposes of the Authority;

3. Adopt bylaws for the management and regulation of its affairs;

4. Develop and adopt a strategic plan for carrying out the purposes set out in this chapter;

5. Make and enter into all contracts and agreements necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties, the furtherance of its purposes, and the execution of its powers under this chapter, including agreements with any person or federal agency;

6. Consult with the General Assembly; federal, state, and local agencies; nonprofit organizations; private industry; and other potential developers and users of nuclear energy;

7. Promote and facilitate agreements among public and private institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth and other research entities to carry out research projects relating to nuclear energy;

8. Disseminate information and research results;

9. Identify and support, in cooperation with Virginia's nuclear entities and the public and private sectors, the development of education programs related to Virginia's nuclear industry;

10. Provide for the establishment of the Consortium by the Board as provided in ยง [67-1404](/vacode/67-1404/);

11. Develop a policy regarding any interest in intellectual property that may be acquired or developed by the Consortium;

12. In order to fund and support the activities of the Authority and the Consortium, apply for, solicit, and accept from any source, including any agency of the federal government, the Commonwealth, or any other state, any municipality, county, or other political subdivision thereof, any member, or any private corporation or other entity, (i) grants, including grants made available pursuant to federal legislation, (ii) aid, or (iii) contributions of money, property, or other things of value, which shall be held, used, and applied for the purposes set out by this chapter;

13. Facilitate the collaboration of members toward the attainment of grants and the expenditure of funds in accomplishing the purposes set out by this chapter;

14. Encourage, facilitate, and support the application, commercialization, and transfer of new nuclear energy technologies;

15. Provide public information and communication about nuclear energy and related educational and job opportunities;

16. Provide advice, assistance, and services to institutions of higher education and to other persons providing services or facilities for nuclear research or graduate education;

17. Foster innovative partnerships and relationships among the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth's public institutions of higher education, private companies, federal laboratories, and not-for-profit organizations to accomplish the purposes set out by this chapter; and

18. Do all acts and things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers granted to it by law.

2013, cc. [57](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0057), [394](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0394).

