# ยง 67-1002 (Contingent effective date; Repealed effective October 1, 2021) Solar and Wind Energy System Acquisition Grant Fund.

A. There is hereby established in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Solar and Wind Energy System Acquisition Grant Fund. The Fund shall consist of such moneys as may be appropriated by the General Assembly from time to time. Any moneys deposited to or remaining in the Fund during or at the end of each fiscal year or biennium, including interest thereon, shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund and be available for allocation under this chapter in ensuing fiscal years. Interest on all moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. The Fund shall be used solely for the payment of the grants provided under this chapter. The Department shall administer the Fund.

B. The Department shall allocate moneys from the Fund to applicants in the order in which their applications are received, until all funds allocated for that fiscal year are expended.

C. The Department shall not allocate an amount in excess of the moneys available in the Fund for the payment of grants.

D. Beginning in calendar year 2007, by June 30 of each year, the Department shall (i) determine the amount of the grants to be allocated to eligible individuals and corporations, and (ii) certify to the Comptroller and each eligible grant applicant the amount of the grant allocated to such applicant. Payment of such grants shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrant of the Comptroller within 60 days of such certification.

E. In no case shall the Department certify grants from the Fund for photovoltaic property, solar water heating property, or wind-powered electrical generators placed in service prior to January 1, 2007.

F. Actions of the Department relating to the allocation and awarding of grants shall be exempt from the provisions of the Administrative Process Act pursuant to subdivision B 4 of ยง [2.2-4002](/vacode/2.2-4002/).

2006, c. [939](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0939); 2007, c. [789](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0789).

