# ยง 67-1203 (Repealed effective October 1, 2021) Data collection.

A. The Authority shall, through moneys derived from sources other than state funds, to the extent such moneys are available, operate in cooperation with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to upgrade wind resource and other metocean assessment equipment at Chesapeake Light Tower and other structures.

B. The Authority may establish public-private partnerships with a developer pursuant to the Public-Private Educational Facilities and Infrastructure Act of 2002 (ยง [56-575.1](/vacode/56-575.1/) et seq.) for the installation and operation of wind resource and other metocean equipment, including light detection and ranging equipment, meteorological measurement towers, and data collection platforms. Any partnership established pursuant to this subsection shall stipulate that:

1. The Authority and the developers shall share the costs of the upgrade;

2. The developer, in coordination with the Authority and relevant state and federal agencies, shall operate any meteorological measurement towers and data collection platforms; and

3. The developer shall make all collected data available to the Authority.

C. The Authority may establish public-private partnerships with a developer pursuant to the Public-Private Educational Facilities and Infrastructure Act of 2002 (ยง [56-575.1](/vacode/56-575.1/) et seq.) for the collection of avian and marine environmental data. Any partnership established pursuant to this subsection shall stipulate that:

1. The Authority and the developer shall share the costs of data collection;

2. The developer, in coordination with the Authority and relevant state and federal agencies, shall manage the environmental data collection process; and

3. The developer shall make all collected data available to the Authority.

D. The Authority may make any data collected pursuant to this section available to the public.

2010, cc. [507](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0507), [681](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0681).

