# ยง 67-1003 (Contingent effective date; Repealed effective October 1, 2021) Requirements for grants generally.

A. The Department shall establish an application process by which eligible individuals and corporations shall apply for a grant under this chapter, as follows:

1. Eligible individuals and corporations may submit an application before the equipment is installed. In this case, the Department, within 14 days of receiving the application, shall notify the applicant as to whether sufficient moneys remain in the Fund to satisfy a potential grant award to the applicant. The Department shall reserve such funds for the applicant for the calendar year in which the applicant applies.

2. The application shall be filed with the director of the Department no later than March 31 of the year following the calendar year in which such property was placed in service. Failure to meet the filing deadline shall render the applicant ineligible to receive a grant for photovoltaic property, solar water heating property, or wind-powered electrical generators placed in service in the prior calendar year. For filings by mail, the postmark cancellation shall govern the date of the filing determination.

B. In order to receive payment of grant funds, the applicant shall provide evidence, satisfactory to the Department, of the total installed cost of each system of photovoltaic property, solar water heating property, or wind-powered electrical generators placed in service by such individual or corporation in the prior calendar year.

C. As a condition of receipt of a grant, an eligible individual or corporation shall make available to the Department for inspection upon request all relevant and applicable documents to determine whether the requirements for the receipt of grants as set forth in this chapter have been satisfied.

D. An individual or corporation receiving a grant pursuant to this chapter for a system of photovoltaic property, solar water heating property, or wind-powered electrical generators may not use such system as the basis for claiming any other grant or credit against taxes, as provided under the Code of Virginia or in an appropriation act.

2006, c. [939](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0939); 2007, c. [789](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0789).

