# ยง 8.01-617 Settlement of accounts of special receivers and special commissioners.

Every circuit court, by an order entered of record, shall appoint one of its commissioners in chancery, who shall hold office at its pleasure, to state and settle the accounts of all special receivers and of all special commissioners holding funds or evidences of debt subject to the order of the court.

All special receivers and special commissioners shall, unless their accounts have been previously verified and approved by the court, and ordered to be recorded, with reasonable promptness, and not longer than four months after any money in their hands should be distributed or at other intervals specified by the court, present to such commissioner in chancery an accurate statement of all receipts and disbursements, duly signed and supported by proper vouchers; and the commissioner in chancery shall examine and verify the same, and attach his certificate thereto approving it, if it is correct, or stating any errors or inaccuracies therein, and file same in the cause in which the special receiver or special commissioner was appointed, and present the same to the court.

The court may at any time appoint any of its other commissioners in chancery to perform the duties herein required in any case in which the regular commissioner in chancery appointed hereunder is himself the special receiver or special commissioner whose accounts are to be settled.

For his services performed hereunder the commissioner in chancery shall receive such compensation as the court allows, to be paid out of the fund in the hands of the special receiver or special commissioner.

If any special receiver or special commissioner fails to make settlement as herein required within the time herein provided, he shall forfeit his compensation, or so much thereof as the court orders.

The court may order its general receiver also to state and settle his accounts in the manner herein provided. When a general receiver settles his accounts before a commissioner of accounts or commissioner in chancery, fees charged by the commissioner are to be reasonable but may not exceed $100 per general receiver settlement or $1 per disbursement made by the general receiver as reflected in the settlement, whichever is greater.

Code 1950, ยง 8-259; 1977, c. 617; 1988, c. 553.

