# § 8.9A-705 Effectiveness of action taken before effective date.

(a) Preeffective-date action; one-year perfection period unless reperfected. If action, other than the filing of a financing statement, is taken before this title takes effect and the action would have resulted in priority of a security interest over the rights of a person that becomes a lien creditor had the security interest become enforceable before this title takes effect, the action is effective to perfect a security interest that attaches under this title within one year after this takes effect. An attached security interest becomes unperfected one year after this title takes effect unless the security interest becomes a perfected security interest under this title before the expiration of that period.

(b) Preeffective-date filing. The filing of a financing statement before this title takes effect is effective to perfect a security interest to the extent the filing would satisfy the applicable requirements for perfection under this title.

(c) Preeffective-date filing in jurisdiction formerly governing perfection. This title does not render ineffective an effective financing statement that, before this title takes effect, is filed and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in former § 8.9-103. However, except as otherwise provided in subsections (d) and (e) and § [8.9A-706](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-706/), the financing statement ceases to be effective at the earlier of:

(1) the time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under the law of the jurisdiction in which it is filed; or

(2) June 30, 2006.

(d) Continuation statement. The filing of a continuation statement after this title takes effect does not continue the effectiveness of the financing statement filed before this title takes effect. However, upon the timely filing of a continuation statement after this title takes effect and in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in Part 3 (§ [8.9A-301](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/) et seq.) of this title, the effectiveness of a financing statement filed in the same office in that jurisdiction before this title takes effect continues for the period provided by the law of that jurisdiction.

(e) Application of subsection (c) (2) to transmitting utility financing statement. Subsection (c) (2) applies to a financing statement that, before this title takes effect, is filed against a transmitting utility and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in former § 8.9-103 only to the extent that Part 3 (§ [8.9A-301](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-301/) et seq.) of this title provides that the law of a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed governs perfection of a security interest in collateral covered by the financing statement.

(f) Application of Part 5 (§ [8.9A-501](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-501/) et seq.) of this title. A financing statement that includes a financing statement filed before this title takes effect and a continuation statement filed after this title takes effect is effective only to the extent that it satisfies the requirements of Part 5 for an initial financing statement.

2000, c. [1007](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007).

