# § 8.9A-523 Information from filing office; sale or license of records.

(a) Acknowledgment of filing written record. -- If a person that files a written record requests an acknowledgment of the filing, the filing office shall send to the person an image of the record showing the number assigned to the record pursuant to § [8.9A-519](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-519/) (a) (1) and the date and time of the filing of the record. However, if the person furnishes a copy of the record to the filing office, the filing office may instead:

(1) note upon the copy the number assigned to the record pursuant to § [8.9A-519](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-519/) (a) (1) and the date and time of the filing of the record; and

(2) send the copy to the person.

(b) Acknowledgment of filing other record. -- If a person files a record other than a written record, the filing office shall communicate to the person an acknowledgment that provides:

(1) the information in the record;

(2) the number assigned to the record pursuant to § [8.9A-519](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-519/) (a) (1); and

(3) the date and time of the filing of the record.

(c) Communication of requested information. -- The filing office shall communicate or otherwise make available in a record the following information to any person that requests it:

(1) whether there is on file on a date and time specified by the filing office, but not a date earlier than six business days before the filing office receives the request, any financing statement that:

(A) designates a particular debtor or, if the request so states, designates a particular debtor at the address specified in the request;

(B) has not lapsed under § [8.9A-515](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-515/) with respect to all secured parties of record; and

(C) if the request so states, has lapsed under § [8.9A-515](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-515/) and a record of which is maintained by the filing office under § [8.9A-522](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-522/) (a);

(2) the date and time of filing of each financing statement; and

(3) the information provided in each financing statement.

(d) Medium for communicating information. -- In complying with its duty under subsection (c), the filing office may communicate information in any medium or, in the alternative, may provide the requestor with a list of persons that provide private record research services. However, if requested, the filing office shall communicate information by issuing its written certificate.

(e) Timeliness of filing office performance. -- The filing office shall perform the acts required by subsections (a) through (d) at the time and in the manner prescribed by filing-office rule, but not later than five business days after the filing office receives the request.

(f) Public availability of records. -- At least weekly, the State Corporation Commission shall offer to sell or license to the public on a nonexclusive basis, in bulk, copies of all records filed in it under this part, in every medium from time to time available to the filing office.

2000, c. [1007](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007); 2002, c. [244](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0244).

