# § 8.9A-311 Perfection of security interests in property subject to certain statutes, regulations, and treaties.

(a) Security interest subject to other law. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d), the filing of a financing statement is not necessary or effective to perfect a security interest in property subject to:

(1) a statute, regulation, or treaty of the United States whose requirements for a security interest's obtaining priority over the rights of a lien creditor with respect to the property preempt § [8.9A-310](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-310/) (a);

(2) a statute of the Commonwealth covering automobiles or other goods, which provides for a security interest to be indicated on a certificate of title as a condition to or result of perfection of the security interest; or

(3) a statute of another jurisdiction which provides for a security interest to be indicated on a certificate of title as a condition or result of the security interest's obtaining priority over the rights of a lien creditor with respect to the property.

(b) Compliance with other law. Compliance with the requirements of a statute, regulation, or treaty described in subsection (a) for obtaining priority over the rights of a lien creditor is equivalent to the filing of a financing statement under this title. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) and §§ [8.9A-313](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-313/) and [8.9A-316](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-316/) (d) and (e) for goods covered by a certificate of title, a security interest in property subject to a statute, regulation, or treaty described in subsection (a) may be perfected only by compliance with those requirements, and a security interest so perfected remains perfected notwithstanding a change in the use or transfer of possession of the collateral.

(c) Duration and renewal of perfection. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) and § [8.9A-316](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-316/) (d) and (e), duration and renewal of perfection of a security interest perfected by compliance with the requirements prescribed by a statute, regulation, or treaty described in subsection (a) are governed by the statute, regulation, or treaty. In other respects, the security interest is subject to this title.

(d) Inapplicability to certain inventory. During any period in which collateral subject to a statute specified in subsection (a) (2) is inventory held for sale or lease by a person or leased by that person as lessor and that person is in the business of selling goods of that kind, this section does not apply to a security interest in that collateral created by that person.

1964, c. 219, § 8.9-302; 1966, c. 569; 1973, c. 509; 1983, cc. 204, 367; 1984, c. 613; 1996, c. [216](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0216); 2000, c. [1007](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007); 2012, c. [155](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0155).

