# § 8.9A-805 Effectiveness of action taken before July 1, 2013.

(a) Pre-effective-date filing effective. The filing of a financing statement before July 1, 2013, is effective to perfect a security interest to the extent the filing would satisfy the applicable requirements for perfection under this title, as amended by the 2013 amendments.

(b) When pre-effective-date filing becomes ineffective. The 2013 amendments do not render ineffective an effective financing statement that, before July 1, 2013, is filed and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this title, as it existed before the 2013 amendments. However, except as otherwise provided in subsections (c) and (d) and § [8.9A-806](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-806/), the financing statement ceases to be effective:

(1) if the financing statement is filed in the Commonwealth, at the time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective had the 2013 amendments not taken effect; or

(2) if the financing statement is filed in another jurisdiction, at the earlier of:

(A) the time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under the law of that jurisdiction; or

(B) June 30, 2018.

(c) Continuation statement. The filing of a continuation statement on or after July 1, 2013, does not continue the effectiveness of the financing statement filed before July 1, [2013.](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP2013.) However, upon the timely filing of a continuation statement on or after July 1, 2013, and in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this title, as amended by the 2013 amendments, the effectiveness of a financing statement filed in the same office in that jurisdiction before July 1, 2013, continues for the period provided by the law of that jurisdiction.

(d) Application of subsection (b)(2)(B) to transmitting utility financing statement. Subsection (b)(2)(B) applies to a financing statement that, before July 1, 2013, is filed against a transmitting utility and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this title, as it existed before the 2013 amendments, only to the extent that this title, as amended by the 2013 amendments, provides that the law of a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed governs perfection of a security interest in collateral covered by the financing statement.

(e) Application of Part 5 (§ [8.9A-501](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-501/) et seq.). A financing statement that includes a financing statement filed before July 1, 2013, and a continuation statement filed on or after July 1, 2013, is effective only to the extent that it satisfies the requirements of Part 5, as amended by the 2013 amendments, for an initial financing statement. A financing statement that indicates that the debtor is a decedent's estate indicates that the collateral is being administered by a personal representative within the meaning of § [8.9A-503](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-503/)(a)(2), as amended by the 2013 amendments. A financing statement that indicates that the debtor is a trust or is a trustee acting with respect to a property held in trust indicates that the collateral is held in a trust within the meaning of § [8.9A-503](http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-503/)(a)(3), as amended by the 2013 amendments.

2012, c. [155](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0155).

