# ยง 9.1-188 Crisis intervention training program.

The Department, in consultation with the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services, and law-enforcement, brain injury, and mental health stakeholders, shall develop a crisis intervention training program divided into the following three categories: (i) a module of principles-based training to be included as a part of the compulsory minimum training standards subsequent to employment for all law-enforcement officers, (ii) a module of principles-based training to be included as a part of the basic training of and the recertification requirements for law-enforcement officers, and (iii) a comprehensive advanced training course for all persons involved in the crisis intervention team programs. Every locality shall establish or be part of a crisis intervention team program in accordance with the provisions of this article.

The curriculum for the basic training and recertification modules and the comprehensive advanced training course shall be approved for Department-certified in-service training credits for law-enforcement officers. All law-enforcement officers involved in a crisis intervention team program shall complete the comprehensive advanced training course in accordance with clause (iii). The comprehensive advanced training course's curriculum developed in accordance with clause (iii) shall include a module on brain injury as part of the four hours of mandatory training in legal issues.

2009, c. [715](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0715); 2020, cc. [514](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0514), [515](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0515); 2020, Sp. Sess. I, c. [36](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0036).

