# § 9.1-128 (For contingent effective date, see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. 524 and 542) Dissemination of criminal history record information; Board to adopt regulations and procedures.

A. Criminal history record information shall be disseminated, whether directly or through an intermediary, only in accordance with § [19.2-389](/vacode/19.2-389/).

B. The Board shall adopt regulations and procedures for the interstate dissemination of criminal history record information by which criminal justice agencies of the Commonwealth shall ensure that the limitations on dissemination of criminal history record information set forth in § [19.2-389](/vacode/19.2-389/) are accepted by recipients and will remain operative in the event of further dissemination.

C. The Board shall adopt regulations and procedures for the validation of an interstate recipient's right to obtain criminal history record information from criminal justice agencies of the Commonwealth.

D. The Board shall adopt regulations and procedures for the dissemination of sealed criminal history record information, including any records relating to an arrest, charge, or conviction, by which the criminal justice agencies of the Commonwealth and other persons, agencies, and employers can access such sealed records and shall ensure that access to and dissemination of such sealed records are made in accordance with the limitations on dissemination and use set forth in §§ [19.2-389](/vacode/19.2-389/), [19.2-389.3](/vacode/19.2-389.3/), and [19.2-392.13](/vacode/19.2-392.13/).

1981, c. 632, §§ 9-187, 9-188; 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0524), [542](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0542).

