# ยง 9.1-116.6 Virginia Gun Violence Intervention and Prevention Fund; purpose; guidelines.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Virginia Gun Violence Intervention and Prevention Fund (the Fund). The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All moneys accruing to the Fund, including funds appropriated for such purpose and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on its behalf, shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used for the purpose of supporting gun violence intervention and prevention programs. Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director of the Department.

B. The Fund shall be administered by the Department, and the Department shall adopt guidelines to make funds available to agencies of local government, community-based organizations, and hospitals for the purpose of supporting implementation of evidence-informed gun violence intervention and prevention efforts, including street outreach, hospital-based violence intervention, and group violence intervention programs.

C. The Department shall establish a grant procedure to govern funds awarded for this purpose.

2020, cc. [818](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0818), [1129](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1129).

