# § 9.1-903 Registration and reregistration procedures.

A. Every person convicted, including juveniles tried and convicted in the circuit courts pursuant to § [16.1-269.1](/vacode/16.1-269.1/), whether sentenced as an adult or juvenile, of an offense for which registration is required and every juvenile found delinquent of an offense for which registration is required under subsection C of § [9.1-902](/vacode/9.1-902/) shall be required upon conviction to register, reregister, and verify his registration information with the Department of State Police. The court shall order the person to provide to the local law-enforcement agency of the county or city where he physically resides all information required by the State Police for inclusion in the Registry. The court shall immediately remand the person to the custody of the local law-enforcement agency for the purpose of obtaining the person's fingerprints and photographs of a type and kind specified by the State Police for inclusion in the Registry. Upon conviction, the local law-enforcement agency shall forthwith forward to the State Police all the necessary registration information.

B. Every person required to register shall register in person within three days of his release from confinement in a state, local or juvenile correctional facility, in a state civil commitment program for sexually violent predators or, if a sentence of confinement is not imposed, within three days of suspension of the sentence or in the case of a juvenile of disposition. A person required to register shall register, and as part of the registration shall submit to be photographed, submit to have a sample of his blood, saliva, or tissue taken for DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) analysis and submission to the DNA data bank to determine identification characteristics specific to the person, provide electronic mail address information, any instant message, chat or other Internet communication name or identity information that the person uses or intends to use, submit to have his fingerprints and palm prints taken, provide information regarding his place of employment, and provide motor vehicle, watercraft and aircraft registration information for all motor vehicles, watercraft and aircraft owned by him. The local law-enforcement agency shall obtain from the person who presents himself for registration or reregistration one set of fingerprints, electronic mail address information, any instant message, chat or other Internet communication name or identity information that the person uses or intends to use, one set of palm prints, place of employment information, motor vehicle, watercraft and aircraft registration information for all motor vehicles, watercraft and aircraft owned by the registrant, proof of residency and a photograph of a type and kind specified by the State Police for inclusion in the Registry and advise the person of his duties regarding reregistration and verification of his registration information. The local law-enforcement agency shall obtain from the person who presents himself for registration a sample of his blood, saliva or tissue taken for DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) analysis to determine identification characteristics specific to the person. If a sample from the person is stored in the DNA data bank, as indicated by the Department of Forensic Science DNA data bank sample tracking system, no additional sample shall be taken. The local law-enforcement agency shall forthwith forward to the State Police all necessary registration information.

C. To establish proof of residence in Virginia, a person who has a permanent physical address shall present one photo-identification form issued by a governmental agency of the Commonwealth which contains the person's complete name, gender, date of birth and complete physical address. The local law-enforcement agency shall forthwith forward to the State Police a copy of the identification presented by the person required to register.

D. Any person required to register shall also reregister in person with the local law-enforcement agency following any change of name or any change of residence, whether within or without the Commonwealth. The person shall register in person with the local law-enforcement agency within three days following his change of name. If his new residence is within the Commonwealth, the person shall register in person with the local law-enforcement agency where his new residence is located within three days following his change in residence. If the new residence is located outside of the Commonwealth, the person shall register in person with the local law-enforcement agency where he previously registered within 10 days prior to his change of residence. If a probation or parole officer becomes aware of a change of name or residence for any of his probationers or parolees required to register, the probation or parole officer shall notify the State Police forthwith of learning of the change. Whenever a person subject to registration changes residence to another state, the State Police shall notify the designated law-enforcement agency of that state.

E. Any person required to register shall reregister in person with the local law-enforcement agency where his residence is located within three days following any change of the place of employment, whether within or without the Commonwealth. If a probation or parole officer becomes aware of a change of the place of employment for any of his probationers or parolees required to register, the probation or parole officer shall notify the State Police forthwith upon learning of the change of the person's place of employment. Whenever a person subject to registration changes his place of employment to another state, the State Police shall notify the designated law-enforcement agency of that state.

F. Any person required to register shall reregister in person with the local law-enforcement agency where his residence is located within three days following any change of owned motor vehicle, watercraft and aircraft registration information, whether within or without the Commonwealth. If a probation or parole officer becomes aware of a change of owned motor vehicle, watercraft and aircraft registration information for any of his probationers or parolees required to register, the probation or parole officer shall notify the State Police forthwith upon learning of the change of the person's owned motor vehicle, watercraft and aircraft registration information. Whenever a person required to register changes his owned motor vehicle, watercraft and aircraft registration information to another state, the State Police shall notify the designated law-enforcement agency of that state.

G. Any person required to register shall reregister either in person or electronically with the local law-enforcement agency where his residence is located within 30 minutes following any change of the electronic mail address information, any instant message, chat or other Internet communication name or identity information that the person uses or intends to use, whether within or without the Commonwealth. If a probation or parole officer becomes aware of a change of the electronic mail address information, any instant message, chat or other Internet communication name or identity information for any of his probationers or parolees required to register, the probation or parole officer shall notify the State Police forthwith upon learning of the change.

H. Every person required to register shall submit to be photographed by a local law-enforcement agency every two years, during such person's required verification month and time interval pursuant to subsection B of § [9.1-904](/vacode/9.1-904/), commencing with the date of initial verification. The local law-enforcement agency shall forthwith forward the photograph of a type and kind specified by the State Police to the State Police. Where practical, the local law-enforcement agency may electronically transfer a digital photograph containing the required information to the Registry.

I. Upon registration and every two years thereafter during such person's required verification month and time interval pursuant to subsection B of § [9.1-904](/vacode/9.1-904/), every person required to register shall be required to execute a consent form consistent with applicable law that authorizes a business or organization that offers electronic communications or remote computer services to provide to the Department of State Police any information pertaining to that person necessary to determine the veracity of his electronic identity information in the Registry.

J. The registration shall be maintained in the Registry and shall include the person's name, any former name if he has lawfully changed his name during the period for which he is required to register, all aliases that he has used or under which he may have been known, the date and locality of the conviction for which registration is required, his fingerprints and a photograph of a type and kind specified by the State Police, his date of birth, social security number, current physical and mailing address and a description of the offense or offenses for which he was convicted. The registration shall also include the locality of the conviction and a description of the offense or offenses for previous convictions for the offenses set forth in § [9.1-902](/vacode/9.1-902/).

K. The local law-enforcement agency shall forthwith forward to the State Police all necessary registration or reregistration information received by it. Upon receipt of registration or reregistration information the State Police shall forthwith notify the chief law-enforcement officer of the locality listed as the person's address on the registration and reregistration.

L. If a person required to register does not have a legal residence, such person shall designate a location that can be located with reasonable specificity where he resides or habitually locates himself. For the purposes of this section, "residence" shall include such a designated location. If the person wishes to change such designated location, he shall do it pursuant to the terms of this section.

2003, c. [584](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0584); 2004, c. [834](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0834); 2005, c. [586](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0586); 2006, cc. [857](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0857), [914](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0914); 2007, cc. [718](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0718), [759](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0759), [823](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0823); 2008, c. [220](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0220); 2010, c. [843](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0843); 2014, c. [677](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0677); 2020, c. [829](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0829); 2022, cc. [41](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0041), [42](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0042).

