# § 9.1-101 (For contingent effective date, see Acts 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. 524 and 542) Definitions.

As used in this chapter or in Chapter 23 (§ [19.2-387](/vacode/19.2-387/) et seq.) of Title 19.2, unless the context requires a different meaning:

"Administration of criminal justice" means performance of any activity directly involving the detection, apprehension, detention, pretrial release, post-trial release, prosecution, adjudication, correctional supervision, or rehabilitation of accused persons or criminal offenders or the collection, storage, and dissemination of criminal history record information.

"Board" means the Criminal Justice Services Board.

"Conviction data" means information in the custody of any criminal justice agency relating to a judgment of conviction, and the consequences arising therefrom, in any court.

"Correctional status information" means records and data concerning each condition of a convicted person's custodial status, including probation, confinement, work release, study release, escape, or termination of custody through expiration of sentence, parole, pardon, or court decision.

"Criminal history record information" means records and data collected by criminal justice agencies on adult individuals consisting of identifiable descriptions and notations of arrests, detentions, indictments, informations, or other formal charges, and any disposition arising therefrom. The term shall not include juvenile record information which is controlled by Chapter 11 (§ [16.1-226](/vacode/16.1-226/) et seq.) of Title 16.1, criminal justice intelligence information, criminal justice investigative information, or correctional status information.

"Criminal justice agency" means (i) a court or any other governmental agency or subunit thereof which as its principal function performs the administration of criminal justice and any other agency or subunit thereof which performs criminal justice activities, but only to the extent that it does so; (ii) for the purposes of Chapter 23 (§ [19.2-387](/vacode/19.2-387/) et seq.) of Title 19.2, any private corporation or agency which, within the context of its criminal justice activities, employs special conservators of the peace appointed under Chapter 2 (§ [19.2-12](/vacode/19.2-12/) et seq.) of Title 19.2, provided that (a) such private corporation or agency requires its officers or special conservators to meet compulsory training standards established by the Criminal Justice Services Board and submits reports of compliance with the training standards and (b) the private corporation or agency complies with the provisions of Article 3 (§ [9.1-126](/vacode/9.1-126/) et seq.), but only to the extent that the private corporation or agency so designated as a criminal justice agency performs criminal justice activities; and (iii) the Office of the Attorney General, for all criminal justice activities otherwise permitted under clause (i) and for the purpose of performing duties required by the Civil Commitment of Sexually Violent Predators Act (§ [37.2-900](/vacode/37.2-900/) et seq.).

"Criminal justice agency" includes any program certified by the Commission on VASAP pursuant to § [18.2-271.2](/vacode/18.2-271.2/).

"Criminal justice agency" includes the Department of Criminal Justice Services.

"Criminal justice agency" includes the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission.

"Criminal justice agency" includes the Virginia State Crime Commission.

"Criminal justice information system" means a system including the equipment, facilities, procedures, agreements, and organizations thereof, for the collection, processing, preservation, or dissemination of criminal history record information. The operations of the system may be performed manually or by using electronic computers or other automated data processing equipment.

"Department" means the Department of Criminal Justice Services.

"Dissemination" means any transfer of information, whether orally, in writing, or by electronic means. The term shall not include access to the information by officers or employees of a criminal justice agency maintaining the information who have both a need and right to know the information.

"Law-enforcement officer" means any full-time or part-time employee of a police department or sheriff's office which is a part of or administered by the Commonwealth or any political subdivision thereof, or any full-time or part-time employee of a private police department, and who is responsible for the prevention and detection of crime and the enforcement of the penal, traffic or highway laws of the Commonwealth, and shall include any (i) special agent of the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority; (ii) police agent appointed under the provisions of § [56-353](/vacode/56-353/); (iii) officer of the Virginia Marine Police; (iv) conservation police officer who is a full-time sworn member of the enforcement division of the Department of Wildlife Resources; (v) investigator who is a sworn member of the security division of the Virginia Lottery; (vi) conservation officer of the Department of Conservation and Recreation commissioned pursuant to § [10.1-115](/vacode/10.1-115/); (vii) full-time sworn member of the enforcement division of the Department of Motor Vehicles appointed pursuant to § [46.2-217](/vacode/46.2-217/); (viii) animal protection police officer employed under § [15.2-632](/vacode/15.2-632/) or [15.2-836.1](/vacode/15.2-836.1/); (ix) campus police officer appointed under Article 3 (§ [23.1-809](/vacode/23.1-809/) et seq.) of Chapter 8 of Title 23.1; (x) member of the investigations unit designated by the State Inspector General pursuant to § [2.2-311](/vacode/2.2-311/) to investigate allegations of criminal behavior affecting the operations of a state or nonstate agency; (xi) employee with internal investigations authority designated by the Department of Corrections pursuant to subdivision 11 of § [53.1-10](/vacode/53.1-10/) or by the Department of Juvenile Justice pursuant to subdivision A 7 of § [66-3](/vacode/66-3/); or (xii) private police officer employed by a private police department. Part-time employees are those compensated officers who are not full-time employees as defined by the employing police department, sheriff's office, or private police department.

"Private police department" means any police department, other than a department that employs police agents under the provisions of § [56-353](/vacode/56-353/), that employs private police officers operated by an entity authorized by statute or an act of assembly to establish a private police department or such entity's successor in interest, provided it complies with the requirements set forth herein. No entity is authorized to operate a private police department or represent that it is a private police department unless such entity has been authorized by statute or an act of assembly or such entity is the successor in interest of an entity that has been authorized pursuant to this section, provided it complies with the requirements set forth herein. The authority of a private police department shall be limited to real property owned, leased, or controlled by the entity and, if approved by the local chief of police or sheriff, any contiguous property; such authority shall not supersede the authority, duties, or jurisdiction vested by law with the local police department or sheriff's office including as provided in §§ [15.2-1609](/vacode/15.2-1609/) and [15.2-1704](/vacode/15.2-1704/). The chief of police or sheriff who is the chief local law-enforcement officer shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the private police department that addresses the duties and responsibilities of the private police department and the chief law-enforcement officer in the conduct of criminal investigations. Private police departments and private police officers shall be subject to and comply with the Constitution of the United States; the Constitution of Virginia; the laws governing municipal police departments, including the provisions of §§ [9.1-600](/vacode/9.1-600/), [15.2-1705](/vacode/15.2-1705/) through [15.2-1708](/vacode/15.2-1708/), [15.2-1719](/vacode/15.2-1719/), [15.2-1721](/vacode/15.2-1721/), [15.2-1721.1](/vacode/15.2-1721.1/), and [15.2-1722](/vacode/15.2-1722/); and any regulations adopted by the Board that the Department designates as applicable to private police departments. Any person employed as a private police officer pursuant to this section shall meet all requirements, including the minimum compulsory training requirements, for law-enforcement officers pursuant to this chapter. A private police officer is not entitled to benefits under the Line of Duty Act (§ [9.1-400](/vacode/9.1-400/) et seq.) or under the Virginia Retirement System, is not a "qualified law enforcement officer" or "qualified retired law enforcement officer" within the meaning of the federal Law Enforcement Officers Safety Act, 18 U.S.C. § 926B et seq., and shall not be deemed an employee of the Commonwealth or any locality. An authorized private police department may use the word "police" to describe its sworn officers and may join a regional criminal justice academy created pursuant to Article 5 (§ [15.2-1747](/vacode/15.2-1747/) et seq.) of Chapter 17 of Title 15.2. Any private police department in existence on January 1, 2013, that was not otherwise established by statute or an act of assembly and whose status as a private police department was recognized by the Department at that time is hereby validated and may continue to operate as a private police department as may such entity's successor in interest, provided it complies with the requirements set forth herein.

"School resource officer" means a certified law-enforcement officer hired by the local law-enforcement agency to provide law-enforcement and security services to Virginia public elementary and secondary schools.

"School security officer" means an individual who is employed by the local school board or a private or religious school for the singular purpose of maintaining order and discipline, preventing crime, investigating violations of the policies of the school board or the private or religious school, and detaining students violating the law or the policies of the school board or the private or religious school on school property, school buses, or at school-sponsored events and who is responsible solely for ensuring the safety, security, and welfare of all students, faculty, staff, and visitors in the assigned school.

"Sealing" means (i) restricting dissemination of criminal history record information contained in the Central Criminal Records Exchange, including any records relating to an arrest, charge, or conviction, in accordance with the purposes set forth in § [19.2-392.13](/vacode/19.2-392.13/) and pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to § [9.1-128](/vacode/9.1-128/) and the procedures adopted pursuant to § [9.1-134](/vacode/9.1-134/) and (ii) prohibiting dissemination of court records related to an arrest, charge, or conviction, unless such dissemination is authorized by a court order for one or more of the purposes set forth in § [19.2-392.13](/vacode/19.2-392.13/).

"Unapplied criminal history record information" means information pertaining to criminal offenses submitted to the Central Criminal Records Exchange that cannot be applied to the criminal history record of an arrested or convicted person (i) because such information is not supported by fingerprints or other accepted means of positive identification or (ii) due to an inconsistency, error, or omission within the content of the submitted information.

1981, c. 632, § 9-169; 1982, c. 419; 1983, c. 357; 1984, c. 543; 1989, c. 233; 1991, c. 338; 1992, cc. 422, 569; 1993, cc. 533, 622, 866; 2000, c. [426](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0426); 2001, c. [844](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844); 2002, cc. [789](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0789), [836](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0836), [868](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0868); 2003, cc. [744](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0744), [934](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0934), [937](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0937); 2004, c. [30](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0030); 2005, c. [914](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0914); 2007, c. [87](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0087); 2008, c. [460](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0460); 2010, c. [621](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0621); 2012, c. [776](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0776); 2014, cc. [225](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0225), [342](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0342), [543](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0543); 2015, cc. [38](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038), [195](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0195), [224](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0224), [730](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730); 2016, cc. [498](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0498), [618](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0618); 2018, c. [548](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0548); 2019, cc. [120](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0120), [475](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0475), [782](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0782), [783](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0783); 2020, cc. [90](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0090), [958](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0958); 2020, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [37](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0037), [55](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0055); 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. [524](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0524), [542](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0542).

