# ยง 9.1-116.7 (Expires July 1, 2023) Body-Worn Camera System Fund.

A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund to be known as the Body-Worn Camera System Fund, referred to in this section as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All funds appropriated for such purpose and any gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds received on its behalf shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund. Interest earned on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely for the purposes of assisting state or local law-enforcement agencies with the costs of purchasing, operating, and maintaining body-worn camera systems as defined in ยง [15.2-1723.1](/vacode/15.2-1723.1/). Expenditures and disbursements from the Fund shall be made by the State Treasurer on warrants issued by the Comptroller upon written request signed by the Director of the Department.

B. The Fund shall be administered by the Department, and the Department shall adopt guidelines to make funds available to state or local law-enforcement agencies for the purpose of assisting state or local law-enforcement agencies with the costs of purchasing, operating, and maintaining body-worn camera systems as defined in ยง [15.2-1723.1](/vacode/15.2-1723.1/).

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [335](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0335).

