# ยง 9.1-904 Periodic verification.

A. For purposes of this chapter, "verify his registration information" means that the person required to register has notified the State Police; confirmed his current physical and mailing address and electronic mail address information and any instant message, chat, or other Internet communication name or identity information that he uses or intends to use; and provided such other information, including identifying information, that the State Police may require.

B. Any person required to register shall verify his registration information with the State Police, during such person's required verification month and time interval, commencing with the date of initial registration, as follows:

1. Any person convicted of a Tier III offense or murder, four times each year at three-month intervals, including the person's birth month; and

2. Any person convicted of a violation of ยง [18.2-472.1](/vacode/18.2-472.1/), in which such person was included on the Registry for a conviction of a Tier III offense or murder, every month.

C. The State Police shall make available to the person an address verification form to be used for verification of his registration information. The form shall contain in bold print a statement indicating that failure to comply with the verification required is punishable as provided in ยง [18.2-472.1](/vacode/18.2-472.1/). Copies of all forms to be used for verification and guidelines for submitting such forms, including month and time verification intervals, shall be available through distribution by the State Police, from local law-enforcement agencies, and in a format capable of being downloaded and printed from a website maintained by the State Police.

D. Persons required to register with last names beginning with A through L shall verify their registration information with the State Police from the first to the fifteenth of such person's verification months pursuant to subsection B, and persons required to register with last names beginning with M through Z shall verify their registration information with the State Police from the sixteenth to the last day of the month during such person's verification months pursuant to subsection B. The last name shall be the last name in the person's name pursuant to ยง [9.1-903](/vacode/9.1-903/) as it appears in the Registry.

E. For the period of July 1, 2020, to July 1, 2021, any person required to verify his registration information shall continue to verify his resignation information with the State Police on such person's verification schedule in place prior to July 1, 2020, until such person has verified his registration information pursuant to the new verification schedule provided in subsection B, at which time such person shall continue to verify his registration information pursuant to the new verification schedule.

2003, c. [584](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0584); 2006, cc. [857](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0857), [914](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0914); 2007, cc. [759](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0759), [823](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0823); 2019, cc. [613](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0613), [614](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0614); 2020, c. [829](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0829).

