# ยง 9.1-207.2 Prohibition on use of certain oriented strand board.

A. As used in this section:

"Acquired structure" means a building or structure acquired by local government from a property owner for the purpose of conducting live fire training evolutions.

"Class A fuel materials" includes wood, straw, and paper products.

"Fire training activities" includes the utilization of live fire training structures designed for conducting live fire training evolutions on a repetitive basis. "Fire training activities" does not include the utilization of acquired structures for conducting live fire training evolutions.

"Local government" includes any locality, fire district, regional fire protection authority, or other special purpose district that provides firefighting services.

"Oriented strand board" means a multilayered board made from strands of wood, together with a binder, by the application of heat and pressure, with the strands in the external layer primarily oriented along the panel's strength axis in accordance with US Product Standard 2-18, Performance Standard for Wood Structured Panels. For purposes of this section only, "oriented strand board" means a wood structural panel intended as a covering material for roofs, subfloors, and walls when fastened to supports.

B. No person, local government, or agency of the Commonwealth shall burn Class A fuel materials that contain oriented strand board during live fire training activities.

C. No provision of this section shall restrict the manufacture, sale, use, or distribution of Class A fuel materials that contain oriented strand board for purposes outside of fire training activities.

2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. [285](http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0285).

