# § 38.2-1341 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article:</p><p>"Accredited state" means a state in which the insurance department or regulatory agency responsible for administering the insurance laws of said state has qualified as meeting the minimum financial regulatory standards promulgated and established from time to time by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' (NAIC) Financial Regulation Standards and Accreditation Program.</p><p>"Control" or "controlled" has the meaning ascribed in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1322/'>38.2-1322</a>.</p><p>"Controlled insurer" means a licensed insurer which is controlled, directly or indirectly, by a producer.</p><p>"Controlling producer" means a producer who, directly or indirectly, controls an insurer.</p><p>"Foreign insurer" means any foreign or alien insurer licensed to transact the business of insurance in this Commonwealth pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1024/'>38.2-1024</a>.</p><p>"Licensed insurer," "insurer" or "property and casualty insurer" means any person, firm, association or corporation duly licensed under this title to write policies or agreements providing any form of insurance as defined in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-110/'>38.2-110</a> through <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-134/'>38.2-134</a>. The following, inter alia, are not licensed insurers for the purposes of this article:</p><p>1. All risk retention groups as defined in the Superfund Amendments Reauthorization Act of 1986, Pub. L. No. 99-499, 100 Stat. 1613 (1986) and the Risk Retention Act, 15 U.S.C. § 3901 et seq. and § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-5101/'>38.2-5101</a> of this title;</p><p>2. All residual market pools and joint underwriting authorities or associations; and</p><p>3. Any insurer licensed as a captive insurer under Chapter 11 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1100/'>38.2-1100</a> et seq.) and any foreign insurer which is either (i) an association captive or (ii) a pure captive. An "association captive" is an insurer whose exclusive purpose is transacting the business of insurance and reinsurance only on risks, hazards and liabilities of the members of an insurance association comprised of any group of individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, or governmental units or agencies whose members collectively own, control, or hold with power to vote, all of the outstanding voting securities of the association insurer. A "pure captive" is an insurer whose exclusive purpose is transacting the business of insurance and reinsurance only on risks, hazards, and liabilities of its parent, subsidiary companies of its parent, and associated and affiliated companies.</p><p>"Producer" means:</p><p>1. Any insurance agent subject to licensure pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 18 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1800/'>38.2-1800</a> et seq.) of this title, or any managing general agent or reinsurance intermediary subject to licensure pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; or</p><p>2. Any person subject to substantially similar licensure provisions of another state when, for any compensation, commission or other thing of value, such agent, intermediary or person acts on behalf of an insured other than the agent, intermediary or person, or aids in any manner, in selling, soliciting, or negotiating the making of any contract of insurance in which the insured, owner and beneficiary are other than the agent, intermediary or person.</p><p>1993, c. 158; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>.</p>