# ยง 10.1-1238 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Activity and use limitations" means restrictions or obligations created under this chapter with respect to real property.</p><p>"Agency" means the Department of Environmental Quality or any other state or federal agency that determines or approves the environmental response project pursuant to which the environmental covenant is created.</p><p>"Common interest community" means a condominium, cooperative, or other real property with respect to which a person, by virtue of the person's ownership of a parcel of real property, is obligated to pay property taxes or insurance premiums, for maintenance or improvement of other real property described in a recorded covenant that creates the common interest community.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Environmental Quality.</p><p>"Environmental covenant" means a servitude arising under an environmental response project that imposes activity and use limitations.</p><p>"Environmental response project" means a plan or work performed for environmental remediation of real property and conducted:</p><p>1. Under a federal or state program governing environmental remediation of real property;</p><p>2. Incident to closure of a solid or hazardous waste management unit, if the closure is conducted with approval of an agency; or</p><p>3. Under a state voluntary clean-up program including the Brownfield Restoration and Land Renewal Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1230/'>10.1-1230</a> et seq.).</p><p>"Holder" means the grantee of an environmental covenant as specified in subsection A of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-1239/'>10.1-1239</a>.</p><p>"Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, public corporation, government, governmental subdivision, agency or instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity.</p><p>"Record," used as a noun, means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.</p><p>"State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.</p><p>2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>.</p>