# § 45.2-915  Haulage and mobile equipment; operating condition.

<p>A. All mobile equipment shall be maintained in a safe operating condition.</p><p>B. Positive-acting stopblocks shall be used where necessary to protect persons from the danger of moving or runaway haulage equipment.</p><p>C. Where it is necessary for persons to cross conveyors regularly, suitable crossing facilities shall be provided.</p><p>D. No person shall get on or off moving equipment.</p><p>E. When the equipment operator is present, any person getting on or off mobile equipment shall notify the operator before doing so.</p><p>F. Mobile equipment shall not be left unattended unless the brakes are set. Mobile equipment with wheels or tracks, when parked on a grade, shall either be blocked or turned in to a bank unless the lowering of the bucket or blade to the ground will prevent movement and such bucket or blade is lowered.</p><p>G. No person shall work on or from a piece of mobile equipment in a raised position unless the equipment is specifically designed to lift a person.</p><p>H. Water, debris, or spilled materials that could create a hazard to moving equipment shall be removed.</p><p>I. Where seating facilities are provided on self-propelled mobile equipment, the operator shall be seated before such equipment is moved. No person shall be allowed to ride on top of self-propelled mobile equipment.</p><p>J. The operator of a piece of self-propelled haulage equipment shall sound a warning before he starts such equipment and as he approaches any place where a person is or is likely to be.</p><p>K. Each mantrip shall be operated independently under the charge of an authorized person.</p><p>L. Each mantrip shall be maintained in safe operating condition. Mantrips shall be provided in sufficient number to prevent any mantrip from becoming overloaded.</p><p>M. No employee shall board or leave a moving mantrip. Each employee shall remain seated while in a moving car and shall proceed in an orderly manner to and from a mantrip.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 45-69.1 to 45-69.3, 45-69.5; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, §§ 45.1-71 to 45.1-74; 1979, c. 315; 1983, c. 70; 1985, cc. 296, 302; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, § 45.1-161.268; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>