# § 38.2-4012 Disposition of reserve for an emergency fund; discontinuance of business; receiver.

<p>The reserve for an emergency fund required by § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-4010/'>38.2-4010</a>, together with the income earned on that fund, shall be a trust fund for the payment of death claims. Whenever the reserve for an emergency fund exceeds the amount of the maximum sum provided by the certificates issued and in force by the society, the investment income generated by the reserve or an emergency fund shall be added back into that fund. It may apply that excess, or any portion of that excess, (i) in reduction of assessments upon certificate holders, or (ii) in any other equitable division or apportionment that its rules or contracts provide for the payment of claims. When any society discontinues business, delinquency proceedings against the society may be instituted and conducted as provided in Chapter 15 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1500/'>38.2-1500</a> et seq.) of this title. In the delinquency proceedings, any unexhausted portion of the reserve for an emergency fund shall be used in payment of accrued claims upon certificates. If this amount is insufficient to pay the claims in full, then the payment of the claims shall be on a pro rata basis; and if a balance remains, the payment of claims shall then be made in the order of their occurrence. Any remaining balance shall be distributed among the members in proportion to their respective premium payments during the latest full year of active business of the society.</p><p>Code 1950, § 38-464; 1952, c. 317, § 38.1-537; 1986, c. 562.</p>