# ยง 6.2-1708 Pre-licensing education of mortgage loan originators.

<p>A. In order to meet the pre-licensing education requirement referred to in subdivision 3 of ยง <a href='/vacode/6.2-1707/'>6.2-1707</a>, an applicant shall complete at least 20 hours of pre-licensing education courses, approved in accordance with subsection B, which shall include at least (i) three hours of federal law and regulations; (ii) three hours of ethics, which shall include instruction about fraud, consumer protection, and fair lending issues; and (iii) two hours of training related to lending standards for the nontraditional mortgage product marketplace.</p><p>B. Pre-licensing education courses shall be reviewed and approved by the Registry based upon reasonable standards. Review and approval of a course shall include review and approval of the course provider.</p><p>C. Nothing in this section shall preclude the provision of any pre-licensing education course that has been approved by the Registry by: (i) the employer of the applicant; (ii) an entity that is affiliated with the applicant by any agency contract; or (iii) a subsidiary or affiliate of such employer or entity.</p><p>D. Pre-licensing education courses may be offered in a classroom, online, or by any other means approved by the Registry.</p><p>E. Except as otherwise provided by the Commission, pre-licensing education courses shall be subject to such expiration rules as may be established by the Registry. Expired courses shall not count toward the minimum number of hours of pre-licensing education required by subsection A.</p><p>2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0273'>273</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0453'>453</a>, ยง 6.1-431.9; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0740'>740</a>.</p>