# § 13.1-1264 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Articles of organization" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1002/'>13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Converting entity" means the domestic or foreign business trust, corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, partnership, or other entity that adopts a plan of domestication or plan of entity conversion pursuant to this article.</p><p>"Corporation" and "domestic corporation" have the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-603/'>13.1-603</a>.</p><p>"Domesticated business trust" means the domesticating business trust as it continues in existence after a domestication.</p><p>"Domesticating business trust" means the domestic business trust that approves a plan of domestication pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1267/'>13.1-1267</a> or the foreign business trust that approves a domestication pursuant to the organic law of the foreign business trust.</p><p>"Domestication" means a transaction pursuant to this article, including domestication of a foreign business trust as a domestic business trust or domestication of a domestic business trust in another jurisdiction, where the other jurisdiction authorizes such a transaction even if by another name.</p><p>"Domestic entity" means a domestic corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, partnership, or other entity.</p><p>"Foreign corporation" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-603/'>13.1-603</a>.</p><p>"Foreign entity" means a foreign business trust, corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, partnership, or other entity.</p><p>"Foreign limited liability company" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1002/'>13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Foreign limited partnership" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/50-73.1/'>50-73.1</a>.</p><p>"Foreign partnership" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1002/'>13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Limited liability company" and "domestic limited liability company" have the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1002/'>13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Limited partnership" and "domestic limited partnership" have the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/50-73.1/'>50-73.1</a>.</p><p>"Member" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1002/'>13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Membership interest" or "interest" has the same meaning specified in § <a href='/vacode/13.1-1002/'>13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Other entity" means a domestic real estate investment trust or common law trust.</p><p>"Partnership" and "domestic partnership" mean an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners a business for profit formed under § <a href='/vacode/50-73.88/'>50-73.88</a>, or predecessor law of this Commonwealth, and includes, for all purposes of the laws of this Commonwealth, a registered limited liability partnership.</p><p>"Resulting entity" means the domestic limited liability company or business trust that is in existence upon consummation of an entity conversion pursuant to this article.</p><p>"Surviving entity" means the domestic business trust that is in existence upon consummation of a domestication pursuant to this article.</p><p>2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0621'>621</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0288'>288</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>