# ยง 46.2-323.1 Certification of Virginia residency; nonresidents not eligible for credentials; penalty.

<p>No credential issued under this chapter shall be issued to any person who is not a Virginia resident. Every person applying for a credential issued under this chapter shall execute and furnish to the Commissioner his certificate that he is a resident of Virginia. The Commissioner or his duly authorized agent may require any such applicant to supply, along with his application, such evidence of his Virginia residency as the Commissioner may deem appropriate and adequate, provided that neither an immigration visa nor a signed written statement, whether or not such statement is notarized, wherein the maker of the statement vouches for the Virginia residency of the applicant, shall be acceptable proof of Virginia residency. If the applicant is less than 19 years old and cannot otherwise provide proof of Virginia residency, the Commissioner may accept proof of the applicant's parent's or guardian's Virginia residency. Any minor providing proper evidence of the solemnization of his marriage or a certified copy of a court order of emancipation shall not be required to provide the parent's certification of residency. It is unlawful for any applicant knowingly to make a false certification of Virginia residency or supply false or fictitious evidence of Virginia residency. Any violation of this section shall be punished as provided in ยง <a href='/vacode/46.2-348/'>46.2-348</a>.</p><p>1993, c. 444; 2002, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0834'>834</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0544'>544</a>.</p>