# § 58.1-3256 Reassessment in towns; appeals of assessments.

<p>In any incorporated town there may be for town taxation and debt limitation, a general reassessment of the real estate in any such town in the year designated, and every fourth year thereafter, that the council of such town shall declare by ordinance or resolution the necessity therefor. Every such general reassessment of real estate in any such town shall be made by a board of assessors consisting of three residents, a majority of whom shall be freeholders, who hold no official office or position with the town government, appointed by the council of such town for each general reassessment and the compensation of the person so designated shall be prescribed by the council and paid out of the town treasury. The assessors so designated shall assess the property in accordance with the general law and Constitution of Virginia. If for any cause the board is unable to complete an assessment within the year for which it is appointed, the council shall extend the time therefor for three months. Any vacancy in the membership of the board shall be filled by the council within 30 days after the occurrence thereof, but such vacancy shall not invalidate any assessment. The assessments so made shall be open for public inspection after notice of such inspection shall have been advertised in a newspaper of general circulation within the town at least five days prior to such date or dates of inspection. Within 30 days after the final date of inspection the assessors shall file the completed reassessments in the office of the town clerk and at the same time forward to the Department of Taxation a copy of the recapitulation sheets of such assessments.</p><p>Any person, firm, or corporation claiming to be aggrieved by any assessment may, within 30 days after the filing of reassessments in the office of the town clerk, apply to the town board of equalization for a correction of such assessment by filing with the town clerk a written statement setting forth his grievances. The board of equalization of every such town shall, within 30 days of the filing of such complaint, fix a date for a hearing on such application and, after giving the applicant at least 10 days' notice of the time fixed, shall hear such evidence as may be introduced by interested parties and correct the assessment by increasing or reducing the same. The circuit court having jurisdiction within the town shall, in each tax year immediately following the year in which a general reassessment was conducted, appoint for such town a board of equalization of real estate assessments made up of three to five citizens of the town. Any such town board of equalization shall be subject to the same member composition requirements and limits on terms of service as provided for boards of equalization pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3374/'>58.1-3374</a>. In addition, at least once in every four years of service on a town board of equalization, each member of such board shall take continuing education instruction provided by the Tax Commissioner pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-206/'>58.1-206</a>. In equalizing real property tax assessments, such board of equalization shall hear complaints, including but not limited to, that real property is assessed at more than fair market value. In hearing complaints, the board shall establish the value of real property as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3378/'>58.1-3378</a>. The provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/58.1-3379/'>58.1-3379</a> shall apply to all complaints heard by any town board of equalization.</p><p>Town taxes for each year on real estate subject to reassessment shall be extended on the basis of the last general reassessment made prior to such year subject to such changes as may have been lawfully made. The town tax assessor shall make changes required by new construction, subdivision and disaster loss. The council of any town may provide by ordinance that it will have a general reassessment of real estate in the town in the year designated by the town council and every year thereafter. The town council may declare the necessity for such general reassessment by such ordinance, but in all other respects this section shall be controlling. No county or district levies shall be extended on any assessments made under the provisions of this section.</p><p>Any town which has failed to conduct a general reassessment within five years shall use only those assessed values assigned by the county.</p><p>Code 1950, § 58-795; 1956, c. 219; 1958, c. 428; 1962, c. 174; 1976, c. 717; 1983, c. 304; 1984, c. 675; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP1036'>1036</a>.</p>