# ยง 33.2-3603 Interstate 81 Committee.

<p>A. The Board shall establish an Interstate 81 Committee.</p><p>B. The purpose of the Committee shall be to provide advice and recommendations to the Board regarding (i) the development of the Program pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/33.2-3602/'>33.2-3602</a> and (ii) updates to the Plan pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/33.2-3604/'>33.2-3604</a>.</p><p>C. The Committee shall hold at least four meetings each year and consult with interested stakeholders. The Committee's meetings shall rotate among locations in Planning Districts 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7.</p><p>D. The Committee shall be composed of 15 voting members and two ex officio members as follows:</p><p>1. The chairs of planning district commissions for Planning Districts 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7, or in the discretion of a chairman, his designee, who shall be a current elected official serving on such commission;</p><p>2. Four members of the House of Delegates, each of whom resides in Planning District 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7, to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Delegates. None of the four members shall live in the same planning district;</p><p>3. Three members of the Senate, each of whom resides in Planning District 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7, to be appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules. None of the three members shall live in the same planning district;</p><p>4. The three members of the Board representing the Bristol, Salem, and Staunton highway construction districts; and</p><p>5. The Commissioner of Highways and the Director of the Department of Rail and Public Transportation shall serve ex officio with nonvoting privileges.</p><p>E. The Committee shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from among its membership. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.</p><p>F. All members of the Committee shall serve terms coincident with their terms in office or position. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.</p><p>G. The Office of Intermodal Planning and Investment, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of Rail and Public Transportation shall support the Committee, as appropriate.</p><p>2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0837'>837</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0846'>846</a>.</p>