# ยง 8.9A-336 Commingled goods.

<p>(a) "Commingled goods." In this section, "commingled goods" means goods that are physically united with other goods in such a manner that their identity is lost in a product or mass.</p><p>(b) No security interest in commingled goods as such. A security interest does not exist in commingled goods as such. However, a security interest may attach to a product or mass that results when goods become commingled goods.</p><p>(c) Attachment of security interest to product or mass. If collateral becomes commingled goods, a security interest attaches to the product or mass.</p><p>(d) Perfection of security interest. If a security interest in collateral is perfected before the collateral becomes commingled goods, the security interest that attaches to the product or mass under subsection (c) is perfected.</p><p>(e) Priority of security interest. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (f), the other provisions of this part determine the priority of a security interest that attaches to the product or mass under subsection (c).</p><p>(f) Conflicting security interests in product or mass. If more than one security interest attaches to the product or mass under subsection (c), the following rules determine priority:</p><p>(1) a security interest that is perfected under subsection (d) has priority over a security interest that is unperfected at the time the collateral becomes commingled goods.</p><p>(2) if more than one security interest is perfected under subsection (d), the security interests rank equally in proportion to the value of the collateral at the time it became commingled goods.</p><p>2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>.</p>