# ยง 28.2-1505 Virginia Coastal Land Management Advisory Council established.

<p>A. There is hereby created the Virginia Coastal Land Management Advisory Council. The Council shall advise the Commission on issues relating to the management of ungranted shores of the sea, marsh and meadowlands, and shall advise the Commission on the development of the management plan prepared pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/28.2-1504/'>28.2-1504</a>.</p><p>B. The Council shall consist of six members appointed by the Governor, who shall be residents of a county in which there are ungranted shores of the sea, marsh or meadowlands, and who shall represent tourism and commerce, traditional uses of shores of the sea, marsh and meadowlands, and conservation interests; however, if any private person or entity owns more than fifty percent of the land area of the barrier islands of the Eastern Shore that are privately owned, such person or entity shall be one of such members. In appointing these members, the Governor shall consider recommendations submitted by the boards of supervisors of counties in which the Commission is managing the largest portions of the ungranted shores of the sea, marsh or meadowlands. The Council shall also include (i) the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation or his designee, (ii) the Director of the Department of Wildlife Resources or his designee, and (iii) the Commissioner or his designee.</p><p>C. The term of office of each appointed member shall be for three years. Appointments to fill vacancies shall be made to fill the unexpired term.</p><p>D. Members shall receive no compensation for their services but shall receive reimbursement for actual expenses.</p><p>E. The Council shall meet at the call of the Commissioner or at least once per year.</p><p>1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0850'>850</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0958'>958</a>.</p>