# § 16.1-283.3 Review of voluntary continuing services and support agreements for former foster youth.

<p>A. Whenever a program participant, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/63.2-918/'>63.2-918</a>, enters into a voluntary continuing services and support agreement with a local department of social services pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/63.2-921/'>63.2-921</a>, a hearing shall be held to review the agreement and the program participant's case plan. In determining whether to approve the case plan, the court shall determine whether remaining in the care and placement responsibility of the local department of social services is in the program participant's best interests and whether the program participant's case plan is sufficient to achieve the goal of independence. Such hearing shall be held by the juvenile and domestic relations district court that last had jurisdiction over the program participant's foster care proceedings when the program participant was a minor. The petition for review of the voluntary continuing services and support agreement and the program participant's case plan shall be filed by the local department of social services no later than 30 days after execution of the voluntary continuing services and support agreement. The petition shall include documentation of the program participant's last foster care placement as a minor and the responsible local department of social services, a copy of the signed voluntary continuing services and support agreement, a copy of the program participant's case plan, and any other information the local department of social services or the program participant wishes the court to consider.</p><p>B. Upon receiving a petition for review of the voluntary continuing services and support agreement and the program participant's case plan, the court shall schedule a hearing to be held within 45 days after receipt of the petition. The court may appoint counsel or a guardian ad litem for the program participant pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/16.1-266/'>16.1-266</a>. The court may reappoint or continue the appointment of the court-appointed special advocate volunteer who served the program participant as a minor or, if the previous volunteer is unavailable, appoint another special advocate volunteer. The court shall provide notice of the hearing and copies of the petition to the program participant, the program participant's legal counsel, the local department of social services, and any other persons who, in the court's discretion, have a legitimate interest in the hearing. The local department of social services shall identify for the court all persons who may have a legitimate interest in the hearing.</p><p>C. At the conclusion of the hearing, the court shall enter an order that:</p><p>1. Determines whether remaining under the care and placement responsibility of the local department of social services is in the best interests of the program participant; and</p><p>2. Approves or denies the program participant's case plan.</p><p>In determining whether to approve or deny the program participant's case plan, the court shall consider whether the services and support provided under the case plan are sufficient to support the program participant's goal of achieving independence. If the court makes any revision to the case plan, a copy of such revisions shall be sent by the court to all persons who received a copy of the original case plan.</p><p>D. After the initial hearing, the court may close the case or schedule a subsequent hearing to be held within six months to review the program participant's case plan. Subsequent review hearings may be held at six-month or shorter intervals in the discretion of the court. The local department of social services shall file a petition for review of the program participant's case plan within 30 days prior to any such scheduled hearing. If a hearing was not previously scheduled, the court shall schedule a hearing to be held within 30 days of receipt of the petition. The court shall provide notice of the hearing and a copy of the petition in accordance with subsection B. If subsequent review hearings are not held by the court, the local department of social services shall conduct administrative reviews pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/63.2-923/'>63.2-923</a>.</p><p>E. In all hearings held pursuant to this section, the court shall consult with the program participant in an age-appropriate manner regarding his case plan.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0095'>95</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0732'>732</a>.</p>