# ยง 58.1-1021.04:2 Certain records required of distributor; access to premises.

<p>A. Each distributor or remote retail seller shall keep in each licensed place of business complete and accurate records for that place of business, including itemized invoices of: (i) tobacco products held, purchased, manufactured, brought in or caused to be brought in from outside the Commonwealth, or shipped or transported to retailers in the Commonwealth; (ii) all sales of tobacco products made; (iii) all tobacco products, including cigars and pipe tobacco, transferred to other retail outlets owned or controlled by that licensed distributor or remote retail seller; and (iv) any records required by the Department.</p><p>All books, records and other papers and documents required by this subsection to be kept shall be preserved, in a form prescribed by the Department, for a period of at least three years after the date of the documents or the date of the entries thereof appearing in the records, unless the Department authorizes, in writing, their destruction or disposal at an earlier date.</p><p>B. At any time during usual business hours, duly authorized agents or employees of the Department may enter any place of business of a distributor and inspect the premises, the records required to be kept under this article and the tobacco products contained therein, to determine whether all the provisions of this article are being complied with fully. Refusal to permit such inspection by a duly authorized agent or employee of the Department shall be grounds for revocation of the license.</p><p>C. Each person who sells tobacco products to persons other than an ultimate consumer shall render with each sale itemized invoices showing the seller's name and address, the purchaser's name and address, the date of sale and all prices. Such person shall preserve legible copies of all such invoices for three years after the date of sale.</p><p>D. Each distributor or remote retail seller shall procure itemized invoices of all tobacco products purchased. The invoices shall show the name and address of the seller and the date of purchase. The distributor or remote retail seller shall preserve a legible copy of each invoice for three years after the date of purchase. Invoices shall be available for inspection by authorized agents or employees of the Department at the distributor's place of business or remote retail seller's place of business. If the remote retail seller cannot produce the required invoice information and the excise tax is being remitted using the actual cost list method to calculate the excise tax, the remote retail seller shall provide the remote retail seller's certified actual cost list to the department for each SKU to be offered for remote retail sale in the subsequent calendar year. The actual cost list shall be updated quarterly as new SKUs are added to a remote retail seller's inventory. New SKUs will be added using the actual cost first paid for the SKU. This method shall not be used unless the actual cost list has been filed with the Department for the previous calendar year.</p><p>E. Any violation of ยง <a href='/vacode/58.1-1021.04:1/'>58.1-1021.04:1</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-1021.04:2/'>58.1-1021.04:2</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-1021.04:3/'>58.1-1021.04:3</a>, or <a href='/vacode/58.1-1021.04:4/'>58.1-1021.04:4</a> of this article shall be grounds for revocation of the license.</p><p>2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0071'>71</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0738'>738</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0779'>779</a>.</p>