# § 6.2-1195 Examination of state savings institutions and affiliates by Commissioner; report of examination.

<p>A. As used in this section, the term "affiliate of any state savings institution" means any entity (i) of which the state savings institution, directly or indirectly, owns or controls either a majority of the voting shares or more than 50 percent of the number of shares voted for the election of its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions at the preceding election, or controls in any manner the election of a majority of its directors, trustees, or other persons, exercising similar functions, (ii) of which control is held, directly or indirectly, through stock ownership or in any other manner, by the shareholders of such state savings institution who own or control either a majority of the shares of the state savings institution or more than 50 percent of the number of shares voted for the election of directors of the state savings institution at the preceding election, or by trustees for the benefit of the shareholders of the state savings institution, or (iii) of which a majority of the directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions are directors of the state savings institution.</p><p>B. The Commissioner shall, not less than once during any period of three consecutive calendar years, or at such additional times as he deems necessary, with or without previous notice, examine each state savings institution. A copy of the report of all examinations shall be furnished to the savings institution. The report shall be presented by the president or other chief executive officer to the directors at their next meeting.</p><p>C. No other copies of a report of examination shall be made except as necessary for review by officers and directors of the state savings institution. Copies of the report made for officers and directors of the savings institution shall not be removed from the premises of such savings institution and shall be destroyed after the review has been completed. The original examination report shall be kept among the records of the Bureau. Upon resolution of the board of directors of a savings institution, examination reports may be inspected in the savings institution by such other persons as the board may specify.</p><p>D. In connection with the examination of any state savings institution, the Commission may make or cause to be made an examination of the affiliates of the state savings institution as shall be necessary to ascertain the financial condition of the savings institution and disclose fully the relations between the savings institution and its affiliates and the effect of such relations upon the affairs of the savings institution.</p><p>E. Upon written application made to the Commission by the board of directors or by the stockholders representing two-fifths of the total outstanding capital stock of any savings institution incorporated under the laws of and doing business in the Commonwealth, or when, in the judgment of the Commission, it may be necessary for the protection of the public or of persons depositing or dealing with such state savings institution, the Commission shall cause to be made a special examination of such state savings institution. All expenses incident to such special examination may be charged to the state savings institution so examined and shall be paid by the savings institution so charged.</p><p>Code 1950, § 6-201.54; 1960, c. 402; 1966, c. 584, § 6.1-184; 1972, c. 796, § 6.1-195.64; 1976, c. 82; 1985, c. 425, § 6.1-194.79; 1991, c. 230, § 6.1-194.145; 1992, c. 224; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0080'>80</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0050'>50</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>