# § 10.1-209 Definitions.

<p>Whenever used or referred to in this article, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the text:</p><p>"Fund" means the Natural Area Preservation Fund.</p><p>"Dedication" means the transfer to the Commonwealth of an estate, interest, or right in a natural area by any manner authorized in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-213/'>10.1-213</a>.</p><p>"Instrument of dedication" means any written document by which an estate, interest, or right in a natural area conveys formal dedication as a natural area preserve pursuant to the provisions of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-213/'>10.1-213</a>.</p><p>"Natural area" means any area of land, water, or both land and water, whether publicly or privately owned, that retains or has reestablished its natural character, though it need not be completely natural and undisturbed; or which is important in preserving rare or vanishing flora, fauna, native ecological systems, geological, natural historical, scenic or similar features of scientific or educational value benefiting the citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Natural area preserve" means a natural area that has been dedicated pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-213/'>10.1-213</a>.</p><p>"Natural heritage resources" means the habitat of rare, threatened, or endangered plant and animal species, rare or state significant natural communities or geologic sites, and similar features of scientific interest benefiting the welfare of the citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Program" means the Virginia Natural Heritage Program.</p><p>"Owner" means any individual, corporation, partnership, trust or association, and all governmental units except the state, its department, agencies or institutions.</p><p>"Registry" means an agreement between the Director and the owner of a natural area to protect and manage the natural area for its specified natural heritage resource values.</p><p>"System" means the state system of natural area preserves established under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-214/'>10.1-214</a>.</p><p>1989, c. 553.</p>