# ยง 22.1-299.2 National Teacher Certification Incentive Reward Program and Fund.

<p>A. From such funds as may be appropriated for such purpose and from such gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds as may be received on its behalf, there is hereby established the National Teacher Certification Incentive Reward Program (the "Program"), to be administered by the Board of Education, and a special nonreverting fund within the state treasury known as the National Teacher Certification Incentive Reward Program Fund (the "Fund"). The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller, and any moneys remaining in the Fund at the end of the biennium shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Interest earned on such funds shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it.</p><p>The State Treasurer shall manage the Fund, subject to the authority of the Board of Education to provide for its disbursement. The Fund shall be disbursed to award incentive grants to public school teachers obtaining national certification from the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards.</p><p>To the extent funds are available in the Fund, teachers who obtain national certification shall receive an initial state-funded award of $5,000 and a subsequent award of $2,500 each year for the life of the certificate. Such awards shall continue to be paid upon renewal of the certificate. The Board shall establish procedures for determining amounts of awards if the moneys in the Fund are not sufficient to award each eligible teacher the appropriate award amount.</p><p>B. The Board may issue guidelines governing the Program as it deems necessary and appropriate.</p><p>1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP1030'>1030</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP1032'>1032</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP1037'>1037</a>.</p>