# ยง 32.1-122.7:2 Powers and duties of the Virginia Health Workforce Development Authority; exemptions.

<p>A. The Authority is authorized to serve as the incorporated consortium of allopathic and osteopathic medical schools in Virginia as required by federal statute to qualify for the receipt of Area Health Education Centers programs, legislatively mandated under the Public Health Service Act as amended, Title VII, Section 751, and 42 U.S.C. ยง 294a, and to administer federal, state, and local programs as needed to carry out its public purpose and objectives. The Authority is further authorized to exercise independently the powers conferred by this section in furtherance of its corporate and public purposes to benefit citizens and such other persons who might be served by the Authority.</p><p>B. The Authority is authorized to monitor, collect, and track data pertaining to health care delivery, training, and education from Virginia educational institutions and other entities as needed to carry out its public purpose and objectives in areas where such data efforts do not already exist.</p><p>C. The Authority shall have the authority to assess policies, engage in policy development, and make policy recommendations.</p><p>D. The Authority shall have the authority to apply for and accept federal, state, and local public and private grants, loans, appropriations, and donations; hire and compensate staff, including an executive director; rent, lease, buy, own, acquire, and dispose of property, real or personal; participate in joint ventures, including to make contracts and other agreements with public and private entities in order to carry out its public purpose and objectives; and make bylaws for the management and regulation of its affairs.</p><p>E. The Authority shall be exempt from the provisions of Chapters 29 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2900/'>2.2-2900</a> et seq.) and 43 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4300/'>2.2-4300</a> et seq.) of Title 2.2.</p><p>F. The exercise of powers granted by this article and the undertaking of activities in the furtherance of the purpose of the Authority shall constitute the performance of essential governmental functions. Therefore, the Authority shall be exempt from any tax or assessment upon any project or property acquired or used by the Authority under the provisions of this article or upon the income therefrom, including sales and use taxes on tangible personal property used in the operation of the Authority. This exemption shall not extend to persons conducting business for which local or state taxes would otherwise be required.</p><p>2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0187'>187</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0488'>488</a>.</p>