# § 38.2-1332 Examinations.

<p>A. In addition to the powers the Commission has under Article 4 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1317/'>38.2-1317</a> et seq.), the Commission shall have the power to examine any insurer registered under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1329/'>38.2-1329</a> and its affiliates to ascertain the financial condition of the insurer, including the enterprise risk to the insurer by the ultimate controlling party, or by any entity or combination of entities within the insurance holding company system, or by the insurance holding company system on a consolidated basis.</p><p>B. The Commission may order any insurer registered under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1329/'>38.2-1329</a> to produce such records, books, or other information papers in the possession of the insurer or its affiliates as are reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this article.</p><p>C. To determine compliance with this article, the Commission may order any insurer registered under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1329/'>38.2-1329</a> to produce information not in the possession of the insurer if the insurer can obtain access to such information pursuant to contractual relationships, statutory obligations, or other method. In the event the insurer cannot obtain the information requested by the Commission, the insurer shall provide the Commission a detailed explanation of the reason that the insurer cannot obtain the information and the identity of the holder of such information. Whenever it appears to the Commission that the detailed explanation is without merit, the Commission may require, after notice and hearing, the insurer to pay a penalty pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-218/'>38.2-218</a> for each day's delay or may suspend or revoke the insurer's license.</p><p>D. The Commission may retain at the registered insurer's expense any attorneys, actuaries, accountants and other experts reasonably necessary to assist in the conduct of the examination under subsection A. Any persons so retained shall be under the direction and control of the Commission and shall act in a purely advisory capacity.</p><p>E. Each insurer producing books and papers for examination records pursuant to subsection B shall be liable for and shall pay the expense of the examination in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-1317/'>38.2-1317</a> et seq.).</p><p>F. In the event the insurer fails to comply with an order, the Commission shall have the power to examine the affiliates to obtain the information.</p><p>1973, c. 505, § 38.1-178.4; 1986, c. 562; 1992, c. 588; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0309'>309</a>.</p>