# ยง 36-71.1 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless a different meaning or construction is clearly required by the context:</p><p>"Administrator" means the Director of the Department of Housing and Community Development or his designee.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>"Compliance assurance agency" means an architect or professional engineer registered in Virginia, or an organization, determined by the Department to be specially qualified by reason of facilities, personnel, experience and demonstrated reliability, to investigate, test and evaluate industrialized buildings; to list such buildings complying with standards at least equal to those promulgated by the Board; to provide adequate follow-up services at the point of manufacture to ensure that production units are in full compliance; and to provide a label as evidence of compliance on each manufactured section or module.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>"Industrialized building" means a combination of one or more sections or modules, subject to state regulations and including the necessary electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems, manufactured off-site and transported to the point of use for installation or erection, with or without other specified components, to comprise a finished building. Manufactured homes defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/36-85.3/'>36-85.3</a> and certified under the provisions of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act shall not be considered industrialized buildings for the purpose of this law.</p><p>"Registered" means that an industrialized building displays a registration seal issued by the Department of Housing and Community Development.</p><p>"The law" or "this law" means the Virginia Industrialized Building Safety Law as provided in this chapter.</p><p>1986, c. 37.</p>