# § 2.2-1104 Laboratory, testing, and analytical functions.

<p>A. The Division shall provide, but is not limited to, the following specific laboratory, testing and analytical functions:</p><p>1. Maintain laboratories for the examination of clinical material and pathological specimens submitted by members of the medical profession of the Commonwealth and for which the Division may charge fees to recover full costs.</p><p>2. Provide laboratory services for the testing and analysis of various products, foods, drinks, economic poisons and other materials regulated or controlled by the Commonwealth.</p><p>3. Provide laboratory services for the analysis and examination of samples and materials related to environmental control.</p><p>4. Establish and conduct programs of inspection and certification of other laboratories in the Commonwealth as mandated by the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (P.L. 93-523) and state requirements pursuant to that Act.</p><p>B. No fee shall be charged for the analyses of water samples that are required by regulations of the Department of Health or for feed and fertilizer samples that are required by regulations of the Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services.</p><p>C. The Division may provide, upon request of any law-enforcement agency, chemical and microbiological testing and analytical functions related to any criminal investigation. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or preclude the Department of Forensic Science from conducting all necessary testing and analytical functions associated with any criminal investigation.</p><p>D. Upon request of a bidder on any state contract that requires the Division to test or analyze the product being offered by the bidder, the Director of the Division of Purchases and Supply may allow such bidder or his representative to witness the test or analysis.</p><p>E. The Division shall provide for security and protection of evidence, official samples and all other samples submitted to the Division for analysis or examination.</p><p>1977, c. 672, §§ 2.1-429, 2.1-430; 1984, c. 275; 1986, c. 610; 1989, cc. 53, 409; 1990, c. 825; 1992, cc. 747, 873; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0868'>868</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0881'>881</a>.</p>