# ยง 58.1-2277 Administrative authority.

<p>A. Employees of the Department designated by the Commissioner, upon presenting appropriate credentials and a written notice to the owner, operator, or agent in charge, are authorized to enter any place and to conduct inspections in accordance with this section. Inspections shall be performed in a reasonable manner and at times that are reasonable under the circumstances, taking into consideration the normal business hours of the place to be inspected.</p><p>B. Inspections may be conducted at any place where taxable fuel or fuel dyes or markers are, or may be, produced, altered, or stored, or at any inspection site where evidence of production, alteration, or storage may be discovered. These places may include, but shall not be limited to any: (i) terminal, (ii) fuel storage facility that is not a terminal, (iii) retail fuel facility, and (iv) designated inspection site.</p><p>C. Employees of the Department designated by the Commissioner may physically inspect, examine, and otherwise search any tank, reservoir, or other container that can or may be used for the production, storage, or transportation of fuel, fuel dyes or markers. Inspection may also be made of any equipment used for, or in connection with, the production, storage, or transportation of fuel, fuel dyes or markers, including equipment used for the dyeing or marking of fuel. Such employees may also inspect the books and records kept to determine fuel tax liability under this chapter.</p><p>D. Employees of the Department designated by the Commissioner may, on the premises or at a designated inspection site, take and remove samples of fuel in such reasonable quantities as are necessary to determine its composition.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0729'>729</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>.</p>