# ยง 2.2-124 Regulation of athletic leaves of absence.

<p>A. The Governor shall establish rules to provide for the regulation of athletic leaves of absence for state employees as follows:</p><p>1. A public employee who qualifies as a member of the United States team for athletic competition on the Pan American or Olympic level in a sport contested in such competition may be granted leave of absence upon approval of the appropriate cabinet secretary without loss or reduction of pay, time, annual leave, or efficiency rating for the purpose of preparing for and engaging in competition on such levels. In no event shall the paid leave under this subdivision exceed the period of the official training camp and competition combined or ninety calendar days a year, whichever is less. A public employee who qualifies and applies as a member of the United States team for athletic competition on the international level other than the Pan American or Olympic games may be granted a leave of absence without pay.</p><p>2. A public employee who qualifies and applies for an athletic leave of absence under the provisions of this subdivision shall notify his employer of his desire for such leave at least thirty days before the effective date of the leave; however, if the official training camp for international or Olympic games commences less than thirty days after the employee's selection as a member of the United States team, the employee shall notify his employer of his desire for athletic leave immediately upon his selection as a member of such team.</p><p>3. All or any portion of the approved athletic leave of absence provided for in this subdivision may be canceled retroactively by the employer if the employee does not participate in the training or competition for approved reasons or for reasons that are unrelated to the physical and/or mental ability to compete.</p><p>4. If the absence of a state employee necessitates the hiring of a substitute during the employee's absence, the Commonwealth shall reimburse the governmental branch, department, agency, board, institution, or commission of the Commonwealth for actual costs incurred in employing the substitute.</p><p>B. As used in this section, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Public employee" means any full-time employee of the Commonwealth or of any branch of the state government, of any executive department of the Commonwealth, or of any agency, board, institution or commission of the State; however, no elected official shall be considered a public employee for purposes of this section.</p><p>"Athlete" means an individual who is dedicated to improving a skill or skills in a particular physical exercise, sport, or game requiring strength, agility, or stamina and for whom this effort does not result in financial gain or remuneration.</p><p>"International or Olympic competition" means any athletic competition involving athletes from two or more nation-states.</p><p>1981, c. 335, ยง 2.1-114.2:1; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>