# ยง 19.2-299.1 When Victim Impact Statement required; contents; uses.

<p>The presentence report prepared pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/19.2-299/'>19.2-299</a> shall, with the consent of the victim, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/19.2-11.01/'>19.2-11.01</a>, in all cases, include a Victim Impact Statement.</p><p>A Victim Impact Statement shall be kept confidential and shall be sealed upon entry of the sentencing order. If prepared by someone other than the victim, it shall (i) identify the victim, (ii) itemize any economic loss suffered by the victim as a result of the offense, (iii) identify the nature and extent of any physical or psychological injury suffered by the victim as a result of the offense, (iv) detail any change in the victim's personal welfare, lifestyle or familial relationships as a result of the offense, (v) identify any request for psychological or medical services initiated by the victim or the victim's family as a result of the offense, and (vi) provide such other information as the court may require related to the impact of the offense upon the victim.</p><p>If the court does not order a presentence investigation and report, the attorney for the Commonwealth shall, at the request of the victim, submit a Victim Impact Statement. In any event, a victim shall be advised by the local crime victim and witness assistance program that he may submit in his own words a written Victim Impact Statement prepared by the victim or someone the victim designates in writing.</p><p>The Victim Impact Statement may be considered by the court in determining the appropriate sentence. A copy of the statement prepared pursuant to this section shall be made available to the defendant or counsel for the defendant without court order at least five days prior to the sentencing hearing. The statement shall not be admissible in any civil proceeding for damages arising out of the acts upon which the conviction was based. The statement, however, may be utilized by the Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission in its determinations on claims by victims of crimes pursuant to Chapter 21.1 (ยง <a href='/vacode/19.2-368.1/'>19.2-368.1</a> et seq.).</p><p>1983, c. 541; 1984, c. 282; 1987, c. 676; 1989, c. 374; 1993, cc. 436, 569; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0687'>687</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0720'>720</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0398'>398</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0344'>344</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0345'>345</a>.</p>