# § 46.2-1503.4 General powers and duties of Board.

<p>The powers and duties of the Board shall include, but not be limited to the following:</p><p>1. To establish the qualifications of applicants for certification or licensure, provided that all qualifications shall be necessary to ensure competence and integrity.</p><p>2. To examine, or cause to be examined, the qualifications of each applicant for certification or licensure, including the preparation, administration and grading of examinations.</p><p>3. To certify or license qualified applicants as motor vehicle dealers and motor vehicle salespersons.</p><p>4. To levy and collect fees for certification or licensure and renewal that are sufficient to cover all expenses for the administration and operation of the Board.</p><p>5. To levy on licensees special assessments necessary to cover expenses of the Board.</p><p>6. To revoke, suspend, or fail to renew a certificate or license for just cause as set out in Articles 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1508/'>46.2-1508</a> et seq.), 3.1 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1527.1/'>46.2-1527.1</a> et seq.), 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1528/'>46.2-1528</a> et seq.), 8 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1574/'>46.2-1574</a> et seq.), and 9 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1581/'>46.2-1581</a> et seq.) of this chapter or enumerated in regulations promulgated by the Board.</p><p>7. To ensure that inspections are conducted relating to the motor vehicle sales industry and to ensure that all licensed dealers and salespersons are conducting business in a professional manner, not in violation of any provision of Articles 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1508/'>46.2-1508</a> et seq.), 3.1 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1527.1/'>46.2-1527.1</a> et seq.), 4 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1528/'>46.2-1528</a> et seq.), 7 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1566/'>46.2-1566</a> et seq.), 8 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1574/'>46.2-1574</a> et seq.), and 9 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-1581/'>46.2-1581</a> et seq.) of this chapter and within the lawful regulations promulgated by the Board.</p><p>8. To receive complaints concerning the conduct of persons and businesses licensed by the Board and to take appropriate disciplinary action if warranted.</p><p>9. To enter into contracts necessary or convenient for carrying out the provisions of this chapter or the functions of the Board.</p><p>10. To establish committees of the Board, appoint persons to such committees, and to promulgate regulations establishing the responsibilities of these committees. Each of these committees shall include at least one Board member and the Advertising, Dealer Practices and Transaction Recovery Fund committees shall include at least one citizen member who is not licensed or certified by the Board. The Board may establish one of each committee in each DMV District. Committees to be established shall include, but not be limited to the following:</p><p>a. Advertising;</p><p>b. Licensing;</p><p>c. Dealer Practices;</p><p>d. Franchise Review and Advisory Committee; and</p><p>e. Transaction Recovery Fund.</p><p>11. To do all things necessary and convenient for carrying into effect Articles 2, 3.1, 4, 8 and 9 of this chapter or as enumerated in regulations promulgated by the Board.</p><p>1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0706'>706</a>.</p>