# ยง 3.2-2201 Small Grains Board; composition and appointment of members.

<p>The Small Grains Board, established by the passage of a referendum held pursuant to Chapter 587 of the 1991 Acts of Assembly, is continued within the Department. The Small Grains Board shall be composed of 11 members appointed by the Governor from nominations by the Virginia Grain Producers Association or other organizations representing small grain producers, the appointments to be subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. The Virginia Grain Producers Association and any other organization submitting nominations shall nominate at least two producers from each production area of small grains. The Governor shall appoint at least one producer from each production area and the membership of the Small Grains Board shall be composed of a majority of producers. The Governor shall appoint one member, if available, from each of the following classifications: seedsman, processor, country buyer, and exporter.</p><p>Nominations shall be submitted at least 90 days before the expiration of the member's term for which the nomination is being provided. If the Virginia Grain Producers Association or any other organization submitting nominations fail to provide the nominations at least 90 days before the expiration date pursuant to this section, the Governor may appoint other nominees that meet the foregoing criteria.</p><p>1991, c. 587, ยง 3.1-684.52; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0691'>691</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0714'>714</a>.</p>