# § 54.1-2909 Further reporting requirements; civil penalty; disciplinary action.

<p>A. The following matters shall be reported within 30 days of their occurrence to the Board:</p><p>1. Any disciplinary action taken against a person licensed under this chapter in another state or in a federal health institution or voluntary surrender of a license in another state while under investigation;</p><p>2. Any malpractice judgment against a person licensed under this chapter;</p><p>3. Any settlement of a malpractice claim against a person licensed under this chapter; and</p><p>4. Any evidence that indicates a reasonable belief that a person licensed under this chapter is or may be professionally incompetent; has or may have engaged in intentional or negligent conduct that causes or is likely to cause injury to a patient or patients; has or may have engaged in unprofessional conduct; or may be mentally or physically unable to engage safely in the practice of his profession.</p><p>B. The following persons and entities are subject to the reporting requirements set forth in this section:</p><p>1. Any person licensed under this chapter who is the subject of a disciplinary action, a settlement, a judgment, or evidence for which reporting is required pursuant to this section;</p><p>2. Any other person licensed under this chapter, except as provided by a contract agreement with the Health Practitioners' Monitoring Program;</p><p>3. All health care institutions licensed by the Commonwealth;</p><p>4. The malpractice insurance carrier of any person who is the subject of a judgment or settlement; and</p><p>5. Any health maintenance organization licensed by the Commonwealth.</p><p>C. No person or entity shall be obligated to report any matter to the Board if the person or entity has actual notice that the matter has already been reported to the Board. The reporting requirements set forth in this section shall be met if these matters are reported to the National Practitioner Data Bank under the Health Care Quality Improvement Act, 42 U.S.C. § 11101 et seq., and notice that such report has been submitted is provided to the Board.</p><p>D. No person or entity shall be obligated to report information regarding a health care provider licensed or registered by the Board who is a participant in a professional program, pursuant to subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/8.01-581.16/'>8.01-581.16</a>, to address issues related to career fatigue and wellness that is organized or contracted for by a statewide association exempt under 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code and that primarily represents health care professionals licensed to practice medicine or osteopathic medicine in multiple specialties to the Board unless the person or entity has determined that there is reasonable probability that the participant is not competent to continue in practice or is a danger to himself or to the health and welfare of his patients or the public.</p><p>E. Any report required by this section shall be in writing directed to the Board, shall give the name and address of the person who is the subject of the report, and shall describe the circumstances surrounding the matter required to be reported. Under no circumstances shall compliance with this section be construed to waive or limit the privilege provided in § <a href='/vacode/8.01-581.17/'>8.01-581.17</a>.</p><p>F. Any person making a report required by this section, providing information pursuant to an investigation, or testifying in a judicial or administrative proceeding as a result of such report shall be immune from any civil liability or criminal prosecution resulting therefrom unless such person acted in bad faith or with malicious intent.</p><p>G. The clerk of any circuit court or any district court in the Commonwealth shall report to the Board the conviction of any person known by such clerk to be licensed under this chapter of any (i) misdemeanor involving a controlled substance, marijuana, or substance abuse or involving an act of moral turpitude or (ii) felony.</p><p>H. Any person who fails to make a report to the Board as required by this section shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000. The Director shall report the assessment of such civil penalty to the Commissioner of the Department of Health or the Commissioner of Insurance at the State Corporation Commission. Any person assessed a civil penalty pursuant to this section shall not receive a license, registration, or certification or renewal of such unless such penalty has been paid.</p><p>I. Disciplinary action against any person licensed, registered, or certified under this chapter shall be based upon the underlying conduct of the person and not upon the report of a settlement or judgment submitted under this section.</p><p>1986, c. 434, § 54-317.4:1; 1988, c. 765; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0744'>744</a>; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0753'>753</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0762'>762</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0045'>45</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0198'>198</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0230'>230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1093'>1093</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0005'>5</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0243'>243</a>.</p>