# ยง 2.2-1516 Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan Advisory Committee.

<p>A. There is hereby established the Six-Year Capital Outlay Plan Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee shall consist of the following, or their designees: the Secretary of Finance, the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget, the Director of the Department of General Services, the Executive Director of the State Council of Higher Education for Virginia, and the staff directors of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations.</p><p>B. 1. On or before November 1, 2008, the Advisory Committee shall submit to the Governor and the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations a proposed list of new capital outlay projects (and previously planned or authorized capital outlay projects) to be funded entirely or partially from general fund-supported resources for the six fiscal years beginning July 1, 2009.</p><p>2. The list shall include projects by agency, in priority order for each agency. In determining priorities, the Advisory Committee shall consider, but not be limited to, the following:</p><p>a. Projects that address safety, health, regulatory, security, environmental requirements, or accreditation;</p><p>b. Projects to upgrade or replace major mechanical systems and utility infrastructure;</p><p>c. Projects to renovate or maintain existing facilities;</p><p>d. Projects to construct, expand, or acquire facilities in order to meet programmatic needs;</p><p>e. For public institutions of higher education, projects that meet State Council of Higher Education for Virginia recommendations or guideline parameters;</p><p>f. Projects that improve energy efficiency;</p><p>g. Projects that are listed on, or eligible to be listed on, the Virginia Landmarks Register;</p><p>h. Renovation projects for which a facility condition assessment has been completed; and</p><p>i. Projects previously planned.</p><p>3. The list shall:</p><p>a. Identify each capital outlay project;</p><p>b. Describe the scope and nature of the project; and</p><p>c. Include any other information that the Advisory Committee deems useful.</p><p>C. Beginning in 2011, on or before November 1 of each year, the Advisory Committee shall make recommendations to the Governor and the Chairman of the House Committee on Appropriations and the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Finance and Appropriations of any changes to the current six-year capital outlay plan (described in ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-1518/'>2.2-1518</a>) and of project funding, including adjusting the fiscal years covered by the plan so that the plan will cover the six fiscal years beginning July 1 of the following year.</p><p>2008, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0697'>697</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0718'>718</a>.</p>