# § 2.2-1115.1 Standard vendor accounting information.

<p>A. The Division, the Virginia Information Technologies Agency, and the State Comptroller shall develop and maintain data standards for use by all agencies and institutions for payments and purchases of goods and services pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-1115/'>2.2-1115</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-2012/'>2.2-2012</a>. Such standards shall include at a minimum the vendor number, name, address, and tax identification number; commodity code, order number, invoice number, and receipt information; and other information necessary to appropriately and consistently identify all suppliers of goods, commodities, and other services to the Commonwealth. The Division, the Virginia Information Technologies Agency, and the State Comptroller shall annually review and update these standards to provide the Commonwealth information to monitor all procurement of goods and services and to implement adequate controls to pay only authorized providers of goods and services to the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. The Division and the Virginia Information Technologies Agency shall submit these standards to the Information Technology Advisory Council in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/2.2-2699.6/'>2.2-2699.6</a> for review.</p><p>C. The Division and the State Comptroller shall adhere to the adopted data standards and match all purchases of goods, commodities, and other services to the related payment activity and make the matched information available on the Auditor of Public Accounts' Commonwealth Data Point website pursuant to subdivision H 3 a of § <a href='/vacode/30-133/'>30-133</a>. This information shall be available at a transactional level and be in sufficient detail to make clear what an agency has purchased; when the purchase was made; the vendor from whom the purchase was made; the amount purchased, if applicable; and how much was paid. To the extent the purchase is made for professional services as defined in § <a href='/vacode/2.2-4301/'>2.2-4301</a>, other than for accounting or legal services, from an entity of the Commonwealth, the name of the buyer in the selling Department or agency shall be specified. Purchases made using credit card or other financing arrangements shall specify the vendor.</p><p>2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0758'>758</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0812'>812</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0136'>136</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0145'>145</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0493'>493</a>; 2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0260'>260</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0261'>261</a>.</p>