# ยง 6.2-1029 Directors.

<p>A. The affairs of every trust company shall be directed by a board of directors. The board shall consist of not less than five nor more than 25 individuals. A majority of the directors shall be citizens of the Commonwealth.</p><p>B. Every director of a trust company shall be the sole owner, and have in his personal possession or control shares, of stock of such trust company having a book value of not less than $2,000 and, within 30 days of election, shall take an oath that he will diligently and honestly perform his duties as a director and that he is the sole owner and has in his possession or control the required amount of stock, unencumbered in any way. When a director is reelected or reappointed, he shall take an oath certifying his ownership and control of the required amount of unencumbered stock throughout his previous term.</p><p>C. Any director who (i) fails, for a period of 30 days, to take the oath or (ii) does not comply with the requirement for ownership of stock, both as required by subsection B, shall automatically forfeit his office.</p><p>D. Within 60 days following the election or reelection of any individual as a director of a trust company, the trust company shall furnish such information to the Commission relative to his personal character, integrity, financial condition, and personal and business background, as the Commission shall from time to time prescribe. Such report, under oath, shall be signed by the director as well as a designated officer of the trust company. Any person knowingly making a false statement in such a report is guilty of perjury.</p><p>1993, c. 432, ยง 6.1-32.22; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0105'>105</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0794'>794</a>.</p>