# ยง 46.2-1509 Application for license or certificate of dealer registration.

<p>Application for license or certificate of dealer registration under this chapter shall be made to the Board and contain such information as the Board shall require. Such information shall include whether the applicant will be seeking a license to sell cars, trucks, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, or trailers and whether such vehicles will be new or used. The Board shall maintain a record of this information and place the appropriate endorsement on any license issued under this chapter. The application shall be accompanied by the fee as required by the Board.</p><p>The Board shall also require, in the application or otherwise, information relating to the matters set forth in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1575/'>46.2-1575</a> as grounds for refusing licenses, certificates of dealer registration, and to other pertinent matters requisite for the safeguarding of the public interest, including, if the applicant is a dealer in new motor vehicles with factory warranties, a copy of a current service agreement with the manufacturer or with the distributor, requiring the applicant to perform within a reasonable distance of his established place of business, the service, repair, and replacement work required of the manufacturer or distributor by such vehicle warranty. All of these matters shall be considered by the Board in determining the fitness of the applicant to engage in the business for which he seeks a license or certificate of dealer registration.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 46-514; 1958, c. 541, ยง 46.1-525; 1974, c. 189; 1976, c. 362; 1988, c. 865; 1989, c. 727; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0615'>615</a>.</p>