# ยง 2.2-1520 Certain funds established.

<p>A. There is hereby established a special, nonreverting fund in the state treasury to be known as the Central Capital Planning Fund, hereafter referred to as the Fund. The Fund shall include such moneys as may be appropriated by the General Assembly from time to time and designated for the Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller and shall be administered by the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget. Any moneys remaining in the Fund at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Moneys in the Fund shall be used solely to pay the pre-planning or detailed planning costs of capital outlay projects that have been approved for pre-planning or detailed planning by the General Assembly.</p><p>B. The State Agency Capital Account shall be established in the general appropriation act as a separate item for appropriation purposes. The State Agency Capital Account shall consist of appropriations of the proceeds from the sale of certain bonds by the Virginia Public Building Authority that are designated for the Account and any other moneys as may be appropriated by the General Assembly. The Account shall be administered by the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget consistent with the provisions of this chapter. The Account shall be used to finance the construction of projects, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-2260/'>2.2-2260</a>, that have been approved for construction by the General Assembly. In addition, it is required that the Account reimburse the Central Capital Planning Fund for payments made for pre-planning or detailed planning of all such projects that have been approved for construction by the General Assembly.</p><p>C. The Public Educational Institution Capital Account shall be established in the general appropriation act as a separate item for appropriation purposes. The Public Educational Institution Capital Account shall consist of appropriations of the proceeds from the sale of certain bonds by the Virginia College Building Authority that are designated for the Account and any other moneys as may be appropriated by the General Assembly. The Account shall be administered by the Director of the Department of Planning and Budget consistent with the provisions of this chapter. The Account shall be used to finance the construction of projects, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/23.1-1100/'>23.1-1100</a>, that have been approved for construction by the General Assembly. In addition, it is required that the Account reimburse the Central Capital Planning Fund for payments made for pre-planning or detailed planning of all such projects that have been approved for construction by the General Assembly.</p><p>2008, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?082+ful+CHAP0001'>1</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?082+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>.</p>