# ยง 55.1-1952 Meetings of unit owners' association and executive board; quorums.

<p>A. Unless the condominium instruments otherwise provide or as specified in subsection H of ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1953/'>55.1-1953</a>, a quorum shall be deemed to be present throughout any meeting of the unit owners' association until adjourned if persons entitled to cast more than one-third of the votes are present at the beginning of such meeting. The bylaws may provide for a larger percentage, or for a smaller percentage not less than 10 percent.</p><p>B. Unless the condominium instruments specify a larger majority, a quorum shall be deemed to be present throughout any meeting of the executive board if persons entitled to cast one-half of the votes in that body are present at the beginning of such meeting.</p><p>C. On petition of the unit owners' association or any unit owner entitled to vote, the circuit court of the county or city in which the condominium or the greater part of such condominium is located may order an annual meeting of the unit owners' association be held for the purpose of the election of members of the executive board, provided that:</p><p>1. No annual meeting as required by ยง <a href='/vacode/55.1-1949/'>55.1-1949</a> has been held due to the failure to obtain a quorum of unit owners as specified in the condominium instruments; and</p><p>2. The unit owners' association has made good faith attempts to convene a duly called annual meeting of the unit owners' association in three successive years, which attempts have proven unsuccessful due to the failure to obtain a quorum.</p><p>The court may set the quorum for the meeting and enter other orders necessary to convene the meeting.</p><p>A unit owner filing a petition under this subsection shall provide a copy of the petition to the executive board at least 10 business days prior to filing.</p><p>1974, c. 416, ยง 55-79.76; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0413'>413</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0214'>214</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0430'>430</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0712'>712</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0009'>9</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0494'>494</a>.</p>