# § 50-73.1 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Certificate of limited partnership" means the certificate referred to in § <a href="/vacode/50-73.11/">50-73.11</a>, and the certificate as amended or restated.</p><p>"Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.</p><p>"Contribution" means any cash, property, services rendered, or a promissory note or other binding obligation to contribute cash or property or to perform services, which a partner contributes to a limited partnership in his capacity as a partner.</p><p>"Domestic," with respect to an entity, means an entity governed as to its internal affairs by the organic law of the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Domestic business trust" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-1201/">13.1-1201</a>.</p><p>"Domestic corporation" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-603/">13.1-603</a>.</p><p>"Domestic limited liability company" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-1002/">13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Domestic nonstock corporation" has the same meaning as "domestic corporation" as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-803/">13.1-803</a>.</p><p>"Domestic partnership" means an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners a business for profit formed under § <a href="/vacode/50-73.88/">50-73.88</a>, or predecessor law of the Commonwealth, and includes, for all purposes of the laws of the Commonwealth, a registered limited liability partnership.</p><p>"Effective date," when referring to a document for which effectiveness is contingent upon the filing with or issuance of a certificate by the Commission, means the time and date determined in accordance with subsection C of § <a href="/vacode/50-73.17/">50-73.17</a>.</p><p>"Entity" includes any domestic or foreign limited partnership or other business entity, any estate or trust, and any state, the United States, and any foreign government.</p><p>"Event of withdrawal of a general partner" means an event that causes a person to cease to be a general partner as provided in § <a href="/vacode/50-73.28/">50-73.28</a>.</p><p>"Foreign," with respect to an entity, means an entity governed as to its internal affairs by the organic law of a jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth.</p><p>"Foreign business trust" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-1201/">13.1-1201</a>.</p><p>"Foreign corporation" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-603/">13.1-603</a>.</p><p>"Foreign limited liability company" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-1002/">13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Foreign limited partnership" means a partnership formed under the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth and having as partners one or more general partners and one or more limited partners.</p><p>"Foreign partnership" means an association of two or more persons to carry on as co-owners of a business for profit formed under the laws of any state or jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth, and includes, for all purposes of the laws of the Commonwealth, a foreign registered limited liability partnership.</p><p>"Foreign registered limited liability partnership" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/50-73.79/">50-73.79</a>.</p><p>"General partner" means a person who has been admitted to a limited partnership as a general partner in accordance with the partnership agreement and named in the certificate of limited partnership as a general partner.</p><p>"Jurisdiction of formation" means the state or country the law of which includes the organic law governing a domestic or foreign limited partnership or other business entity.</p><p>"Limited partner" means a person who has been admitted to a limited partnership as a limited partner in accordance with the partnership agreement.</p><p>"Limited partnership" and "domestic limited partnership" mean a partnership formed by two or more persons under the laws of the Commonwealth and having one or more general partners and one or more limited partners.</p><p>"Liquidating trustee" means a person, other than a general partner, but including a limited partner, who carries out the winding up of a limited partnership as provided in this chapter.</p><p>"Organic law" means the statute governing the internal affairs of a domestic or foreign limited partnership or eligible entity.</p><p>"Other business entity" means a domestic or foreign stock corporation, nonstock corporation, business trust, limited liability company, or partnership.</p><p>"Partner" means a limited or general partner.</p><p>"Partnership agreement" means any valid agreement, written or oral, of the partners as to the affairs of a limited partnership and the conduct of its business.</p><p>"Partnership interest" means a partner's share of the profits and losses of a limited partnership and the right to receive distributions of partnership assets.</p><p>"Person" means an individual, partnership, limited partnership (domestic or foreign), trust, estate, association, corporation, or any other legal or commercial entity.</p><p>"Principal office" means the office, in or out of the Commonwealth, where the principal executive offices of a domestic or foreign limited partnership are located. Any reference to a specified office contained in the records of the Commission as of July 1, 2010, shall be deemed, in all instances, to be a reference to the principal office of a domestic or foreign limited partnership.</p><p>"Protected series" has the same meaning as specified in § <a href="/vacode/13.1-1002/">13.1-1002</a>.</p><p>"Registered limited liability partnership" means a limited partnership or general partnership formed under the laws of the Commonwealth that is registered under § <a href="/vacode/50-73.132/">50-73.132</a>.</p><p>"State" means a state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.</p><p>1985, c. 607; 1987, c. 702; 1990, c. 343; 1992, c. 575; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0190'>190</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0340'>340</a>; 2007, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0631'>631</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0675'>675</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0487'>487</a>.</p>