# ยง 33.2-1710 Form and terms of bonds.

<p>The bonds of such issue shall be dated, shall bear interest at such rate or rates, and shall mature at such time or times, not exceeding 40 years from their date or dates, as may be determined by the Board or by formula or method established by resolution of the Board, and may be made redeemable before maturity, at the option of the Board, at such price or prices and under such terms and conditions as may be fixed by the Board prior to the issuance of the bonds. The principal or purchase price of and redemption premium, if any, and interest on such bonds may be made payable in any lawful medium. The payments of principal and interest may be uniform in amount over the life of the bond; however, such uniformity shall not be a prerequisite to the issuance of such bonds. The Board shall determine the form of the bonds, including any interest coupons to be attached thereto, and shall fix the denomination or denominations of the bonds and the place or places of payment of principal and interest thereof, which may be at any bank or trust company within or without the Commonwealth. The bonds shall be signed by the chairman or vice-chairman of the Board, and the official seal of the Board shall be affixed thereto and attested by the secretary or assistant secretary of the Board, and any coupons attached thereto shall bear the facsimile signatures of the chairman or vice-chairman of the Board. When any officer whose signature appears on the bonds or coupons ceases to be such officer before the delivery of such bonds, such signature shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if such officer had remained in office until such delivery. All revenue bonds issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have and are hereby declared to have, as between successive holders, all the qualities and incidents of negotiable instruments under the negotiable instruments law of the Commonwealth. Such bonds and the income thereof shall be exempt from all taxation within the Commonwealth. The bonds may be issued in coupon or in registered form, or both, as the Board may determine, and provision may be made for the registration of any coupon bond as to principal alone and also as to both principal and interest and for the reconversion of any bonds registered as to both principal and interest into coupon bonds. Prior to the preparation of definite bonds, the Board, under like restrictions, may issue temporary bonds with or without coupons, exchangeable for definitive bonds upon the issuance of the latter. The Board may also provide for the replacement of any bond that is mutilated, destroyed, or lost.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 33-238; 1958, c. 485; 1970, c. 322, ยง 33.1-278; 1983, c. 245; 1986, Sp. Sess., c. 13; 2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1019'>1019</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1044'>1044</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>