# § 18.2-51.5 Maiming, etc., of another resulting from operating a watercraft while intoxicated; penalty.

<p>A. Any person who, as a result of operating a watercraft or motorboat in violation of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-738/'>29.1-738</a> or a similar local ordinance in a manner so gross, wanton, and culpable as to show reckless disregard for human life, unintentionally causes the serious bodily injury of another person is guilty of a Class 6 felony.</p><p>B. Any person who, as a result of operating a watercraft or motorboat in violation of subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/29.1-738/'>29.1-738</a> or a similar local ordinance in a manner so gross, wanton, and culpable as to show reckless disregard for human life, unintentionally causes the serious bodily injury of another person resulting in permanent and significant physical impairment is guilty of a Class 4 felony.</p><p>C. The court shall order any person convicted under this section not to operate a watercraft or motorboat that is underway upon the waters of the Commonwealth. After two years have passed from the date of the conviction, the convicted person may petition the court that entered the conviction for the right to operate a watercraft or motorboat upon the waters of the Commonwealth. Upon consideration of such petition, the court may restore the right to operate a watercraft or motorboat subject to such terms and conditions as the court deems appropriate, including the successful completion of a water safety alcohol rehabilitation program described in § <a href='/vacode/29.1-738.5/'>29.1-738.5</a>.</p><p>D. The provisions of Article 3 (§ <a href='/vacode/29.1-734/'>29.1-734</a> et seq.) of Chapter 7 of Title 29.1 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, upon arrest for a violation of this section.</p><p>E. As used in this section, "serious bodily injury" means bodily injury that involves substantial risk of death, extreme physical pain, protracted and obvious disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty.</p><p>2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0379'>379</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0679'>679</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0465'>465</a>.</p>