# ยง 54.1-2400.3 Disciplinary actions to be reported.

<p>In addition to the information required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-114/'>54.1-114</a>, the Director shall include in the Department's biennial report for each of the health regulatory boards the number of reports or complaints of misconduct received and the investigations, charges, findings, and sanctions resulting therefrom. The report shall reflect the categories of allegations, kinds of complaints and the rates of disciplinary activity for the various regulated professions and the health regulatory boards having jurisdiction; summaries explaining the reported data shall be included with the report. Further, the report shall specify the number of cases for each profession regulated by a health regulatory board by category of violation, including, but not limited to, standard of care violations, in which (i) a sanction was imposed; (ii) a confidential consent agreement was accepted; and (iii) more than two confidential consent agreements involving a standard of care violation were accepted by the relevant board for the same practitioner in a 10-year period. The information shall be reported only in the aggregate without reference to any individual's name or identifying particulars. In those portions of this report relating to the Board of Medicine, the Director shall include a summary of the data required by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-2910.1/'>54.1-2910.1</a>.</p><p>The Director shall also include in the Department's biennial report for each health regulatory board (i) case processing time standards for resolving disciplinary cases, (ii) an analysis of the percentage of cases resolved during the last two fiscal years that did not meet such standards, (iii) a six-year trend analysis of the time required to process, investigate, and adjudicate cases, and (iv) a detailed reporting of staffing levels for the six-year period for each job classification that supports the disciplinary process. However, the initial biennial report shall require a four-year trend analysis of the time required to process, investigate, and adjudicate cases and a detailed reporting of staffing levels for the four-year period for each job classification that supports the disciplinary process.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0698'>698</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0744'>744</a>; 2003, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0753'>753</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0762'>762</a>.</p>