# § 58.1-439.29 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Authority" means   the Virginia Housing Development Authority, or its successor agency.</p><p>"Credit period" means  the credit period as defined in § 42(f)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.</p><p>"Eligibility certificate" means  a certificate issued by the Authority to the owner of a qualified project certifying that such project qualifies for the Virginia housing opportunity tax credit authorized by this article, and specifying the amount of housing opportunity tax credits that the owner of such qualified project may claim in each year of the credit period. The Authority shall issue an eligibility certificate to a qualified project upon the Authority's approval of a final cost certification that complies with the Authority's requirements.</p><p>"Federal low-income housing tax credit" means  the federal tax credit as provided in § 42 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended.</p><p>                     "Housing opportunity tax credit" or "tax credit" means the tax credit created by this article.                  </p><p>"Qualified project" means  a qualified low-income building, as defined in § 42(c) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, that is located in Virginia, is placed in service on or after January 1, 2021, and is issued an eligibility certificate.</p><p>"Qualified taxpayer" means  a taxpayer owning an interest, direct or indirect, through one or more pass-through entities, in a qualified project at any time prior to filing a tax return claiming a housing opportunity tax credit.</p><p>"Taxpayer" means  an individual, corporation, S corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, or nonprofit organization.</p><p>"Virginia tax liability" means  the income taxes imposed by Articles 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-320/'>58.1-320</a> et seq.), 6 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-360/'>58.1-360</a> et seq.), and 10 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-400/'>58.1-400</a> et seq.) of this chapter, Chapter 12 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-1200/'>58.1-1200</a> et seq.), Article 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-2500/'>58.1-2500</a> et seq.) of Chapter 25, and Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-2620/'>58.1-2620</a> et seq.) of Chapter 26. An insurance company claiming a housing opportunity tax credit against the taxes, licenses, and other fees, fines, and penalties imposed by Article 1 of Chapter 25, including any retaliatory tax imposed on insurance companies by the Code of Virginia, shall not be required to pay any additional tax as a result of claiming the housing opportunity tax credit. The housing opportunity tax credit may fully offset any retaliatory tax imposed by the Code of Virginia.</p><p>2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0495'>495</a>.</p>