# § 18.2-308.012 Prohibited conduct.

<p>A. Any person permitted to carry a concealed handgun who is under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs while carrying such handgun in a public place is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Conviction of any of the following offenses shall be prima facie evidence, subject to rebuttal, that the person is "under the influence" for purposes of this section: manslaughter in violation of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-36.1/'>18.2-36.1</a>, maiming in violation of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-51.4/'>18.2-51.4</a>, driving while intoxicated in violation of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-266/'>18.2-266</a>, public intoxication in violation of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-388/'>18.2-388</a>, or driving while intoxicated in violation of § <a href='/vacode/46.2-341.24/'>46.2-341.24</a>. Upon such conviction that court shall revoke the person's permit for a concealed handgun and promptly notify the issuing circuit court. A person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall be ineligible to apply for a concealed handgun permit for a period of five years.</p><p>B. No person who carries a concealed handgun onto the premises of any restaurant or club as defined in § <a href='/vacode/4.1-100/'>4.1-100</a> for which a license to sell and serve alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption has been granted by the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority under Title 4.1 may consume an alcoholic beverage while on the premises. A person who carries a concealed handgun onto the premises of such a restaurant or club and consumes alcoholic beverages is guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. However, nothing in this subsection shall apply to a federal, state, or local law-enforcement officer.</p><p>2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0746'>746</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038'>38</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730'>730</a>.</p>