# ยง 28.2-603.2 Commissioner to provide notice.

<p>A. At least 30 days before placing temporary protective enclosures on a leasehold pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/28.2-603.1/'>28.2-603.1</a>, the leaseholder shall provide written notification to the Commissioner that identifies the leasehold, the approximate maximum number of enclosures to be placed on the leasehold at any given time, and the estimated date such placement will begin. No later than 30 days after receiving such notification, the Commissioner may publish notice of the proposed placement in a newspaper of general circulation serving the area in which the leasehold is located. In determining whether to publish such notice, the Commissioner shall consider the potential effect on existing uses of waters proximate to the leasehold and the potential for conflict between the proposed placement and such uses. The public notice shall invite written comment on the proposed placement and include information concerning the submission of written comments. The Commission may receive written comments for no more than 30 days following publication of notice.</p><p>B. If, on the basis of written comments, the Commissioner finds significant and substantive opposition from persons residing on or using the waters proximate to the leasehold, the Commissioner shall convene a public meeting on the proposal no more than 30 days after the close of the comment period. No later than 15 days after the public meeting, the Commissioner shall (i) approve the proposal, (ii) approve the proposal with conditions, or (iii) deny the proposal. If the Commissioner denies the proposal, the leaseholder may request approval of the proposal before a hearing of the Commission.</p><p>C. If the Commissioner determines not to publish public notice, the Commissioner shall, no later than 30 days after receiving written notification of the proposal, advise the leaseholder to proceed in accordance with the requirements of the general permit. If the Commissioner publishes public notice but does not find significant and substantive opposition by persons residing on or using the waters to the leasehold, the Commissioner shall, no later than 15 days after the close of the comment period, advise the leaseholder to proceed in accordance with the requirements of the general permit.</p><p>2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0170'>170</a>.</p>