# § 13.1-775 Annual report of domestic and foreign corporations.

<p>A. Each domestic corporation, and each foreign corporation authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth, shall file, within the time prescribed by this section, an annual report setting forth:</p><p>1. The name of the corporation, the address of its principal office, and the jurisdiction of its formation;</p><p>2. The address of the registered office of the corporation in the Commonwealth, including both (i) the post office address with street and number, if any, and (ii) the name of the county or city in which it is located, and the name of its registered agent in the Commonwealth at such address;</p><p>3. The names and post office addresses of the directors and the principal officers of the corporation; and</p><p>4. A statement of the aggregate number of shares that the corporation has authority to issue.</p><p>B. The report shall be made on a form prescribed and furnished by the Commission and shall supply the information as of the date of the report.</p><p>C. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the annual report of a domestic or foreign corporation shall be filed with the Commission on or before the last day of the twelfth month next succeeding the month in which it was incorporated or authorized to transact business in the Commonwealth, and on or before such date in each year thereafter. The report shall be filed no earlier than three months prior to its due date each year. If the report appears to be incomplete or inaccurate, the Commission shall return it for correction or explanation. Otherwise the Commission shall file it in the clerk's office. At the discretion of the Commission, the annual report due date for a corporation may be extended, on a monthly basis for a period of not less than one month nor more than 11 months, at the request of its registered agent of record or as may be necessary to distribute annual report due dates of corporations as equally as practicable throughout the year on a monthly basis.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 13-9, 13-11, 13-32, 13-213, 13.1-120, 13.1-121; 1956, c. 428; 1958, c. 564; 1975, c. 500; 1981, c. 523; 1985, c. 522; 1986, c. 233; 1987, c. 2; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0753'>753</a>; 2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0132'>132</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>.</p>