# ยง 33.2-287 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Authority" means the Virginia Passenger Rail Authority.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Authority.</p><p>"Bonds" means the revenue notes, bonds, certificates, and other evidences of indebtedness or obligations of the Authority.</p><p>"Cost" means, as applied to rail facilities, (i) the cost of construction; (ii) the cost of acquisition of all lands, structures, fixtures, rights-of-way, franchises, easements, and other property rights and interests; (iii) the cost of demolishing, removing, or relocating any buildings, structures, or fixtures on lands acquired, including the cost of acquiring any lands to which such buildings, structures, or fixtures may be moved or relocated; (iv) the cost of all labor, materials, machinery, and equipment; (v) financing charges and interest on all bonds prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; (vi) the cost of engineering, financial, and legal services, plans, specifications, studies, surveys, estimates of cost and of revenues, and other expenses incidental to determining the feasibility of acquiring, constructing, operating, or maintaining rail facilities; (vii) administrative expenses, provisions for working capital, and reserves for interest and for extensions, enlargements, additions, and improvements; and (viii) such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the acquisition, construction, financing, operations, and maintenance of rail facilities. Any obligation or expense incurred by the Commonwealth or any agency thereof for studies, surveys, borings, preparation of plans, and specification or other work or materials in the acquisition or construction of rail facilities may be regarded as a part of the cost of rail facilities and may be reimbursed to the Commonwealth or any agency thereof out of the proceeds of the bonds issued for such rail facilities as herein authorized.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Rail and Public Transportation.</p><p>"Rail facilities" means the assets consisting of the real, personal, or mixed property, or any interest in that property, whether tangible or intangible, that are determined to be necessary or convenient for the provision of passenger rail service. "Rail facilities" includes all property or interests necessary or convenient for the acquiring, providing, using, equipping, or maintaining of a rail facility or system, including right-of-way, trackwork, train controls, stations, and maintenance facilities.</p><p>"Transportation Board" means the Commonwealth Transportation Board.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>