# § 9.1-153 Volunteer court-appointed special advocates; powers and duties; assignment; qualifications; training.

<p>A. Services in each local court-appointed special advocate program shall be provided by volunteer court-appointed special advocates, hereinafter referred to as advocates. The advocate's duties shall include:</p><p>1. Investigating the case to which he is assigned to provide independent factual information to the court.</p><p>2. Submitting to the court of a written report of his investigation in compliance with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/16.1-274/'>16.1-274</a>. The report may, upon request of the court, include recommendations as to the child's welfare.</p><p>3. Monitoring the case to which he is assigned to ensure compliance with the court's orders.</p><p>4. Assisting the guardian ad litem appointed to represent the child in providing effective representation of the child's needs and best interests.</p><p>5. Reporting a suspected abused or neglected child pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/63.2-1509/'>63.2-1509</a>.</p><p>B. The advocate is not a party to the case to which he is assigned and shall not call witnesses or examine witnesses. The advocate shall not, with respect to the case to which he is assigned, provide legal counsel or advice to any person, appear as counsel in court or in proceedings which are part of the judicial process, or engage in the unauthorized practice of law. The advocate may testify if called as a witness.</p><p>C. The program director shall assign an advocate to a child when requested to do so by the judge of the juvenile and domestic relations district court having jurisdiction over the proceedings. The advocate shall continue his association with each case to which he is assigned until relieved of his duties by the court or by the program director. The program director may assign an advocate to attend and participate in family partnership meetings as defined by the Department of Social Services and in meetings of family assessment and planning teams established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/2.2-5208/'>2.2-5208</a>, multidisciplinary child sexual abuse response teams established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/15.2-1627.5/'>15.2-1627.5</a>, individualized education program teams established pursuant to Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/22.1-213/'>22.1-213</a> et seq.) of Chapter 13 of Title 22.1, and multidisciplinary teams established pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/63.2-1503/'>63.2-1503</a> and <a href='/vacode/63.2-1505/'>63.2-1505</a>.</p><p>D. The Department shall adopt regulations governing the qualifications of advocates who for purposes of administering this subsection shall be deemed to be criminal justice employees. The regulations shall require that an advocate be at least twenty-one years of age and that the program director shall obtain with the approval of the court (i) a copy of his criminal history record or certification that no conviction data are maintained on him and (ii) a copy of information from the central registry maintained pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/63.2-1515/'>63.2-1515</a> on any investigation of child abuse or neglect undertaken on him or certification that no such record is maintained on him. Advocates selected prior to the adoption of regulations governing qualifications shall meet the minimum requirements set forth in this article.</p><p>E. An advocate shall have no associations which create a conflict of interests or the appearance of such a conflict with his duties as an advocate. No advocate shall be assigned to a case of a child whose family has a professional or personal relationship with the advocate. Questions concerning conflicts of interests shall be determined in accordance with regulations adopted by the Department.</p><p>F. No applicant shall be assigned as an advocate until successful completion of a program of training required by regulations. The Department shall set standards for both basic and ongoing training.</p><p>1990, c. 752, § 9-173.8; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0700'>700</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0830'>830</a>; 1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0606'>606</a>; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0606'>606</a>; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0177'>177</a>.</p>