# § 23.1-204.1 Postgraduation employment rates.

<p>A. The Council shall annually collect and publish on its website data on the proportion of graduates of each public institution of higher education and each nonprofit private institution of higher education eligible to participate in the Tuition Assistance Grant Program (§ <a href='/vacode/23.1-628/'>23.1-628</a> et seq.) who are employed (i) 18 months after the date of graduation and (ii) five years after the date of graduation. The data shall include the program and the program level, as recognized by the Council, for each degree awarded by each institution; the percentage of graduates known to be employed in the Commonwealth, by degree program and level; the average salary, hours worked, as available, occupation or occupation code, as available, and the average higher education-related debt for the graduates on which the data is based, by degree program and level; rates of enrollment in remedial coursework for each institution; individual student credit accumulation for each institution; rates of postsecondary degree completion; and any other information that the Council determines is necessary to address adequate preparation for success in postsecondary education, alignment between secondary and postsecondary education, and alignment between postsecondary education and workforce preparation. The published data shall be consistent with the Government Data Collection and Dissemination Practices Act (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3800/'>2.2-3800</a> et seq.) and the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act, 20 U.S.C. § 1232g.</p><p>B. The Council shall disseminate to each public high school and each public institution of higher education and private institution of higher education for which the Council has student-level data a link on its website to the published data.</p><p>C. The Council shall provide a notification template that each public high school may use to annually notify students and their parents about the availability of such data.</p><p>D. Each public institution of higher education and each nonprofit private institution of higher education eligible to participate in the Tuition Assistance Grant Program (§ <a href='/vacode/23.1-628/'>23.1-628</a> et seq.) shall provide a link on its website to the postsecondary education and employment data published pursuant to subsection A and shall make such link available to each admitted student.</p><p>2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0376'>376</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0590'>590</a>.</p>