# § 54.1-4201.2 Firearm transactions by persons other than dealers; mandatory background checks.

<p>A. The Department of State Police shall be available at every firearms show held in the Commonwealth and shall make determinations in accordance with the procedures set out in § <a href='/vacode/18.2-308.2:2/'>18.2-308.2:2</a> of whether a prospective purchaser or transferee is prohibited under state or federal law from possessing a firearm prior to the completion of any firearm transaction at a firearms show held in the Commonwealth. The Department of State Police shall establish policies and procedures in accordance with 28 C.F.R. § 25.6 to permit such determinations to be made by the Department of State Police.</p><p>The Department of State Police may charge a reasonable fee for the determination.</p><p>B. The promoter, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-4201.1/'>54.1-4201.1</a>, shall give the Department of State Police notice of the time and location of a firearms show at least 30 days prior to the show. The promoter shall provide the Department of State Police with adequate space, at no charge, to conduct such prohibition determinations. The promoter shall ensure that a notice that such determinations are available is prominently displayed at the show.</p><p>C. No person who sells or transfers a firearm at a firearms show after receiving a determination from the Department of State Police that the purchaser or transferee is not prohibited by state or federal law from possessing a firearm shall be liable for selling or transferring a firearm to such person.</p><p>D. The provisions of § <a href='/vacode/18.2-308.2:2/'>18.2-308.2:2</a>, including definitions, procedures, and prohibitions, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the provisions of this section.</p><p>2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0044'>44</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0045'>45</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0828'>828</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1111'>1111</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1112'>1112</a>.</p>