# ยง 46.2-1190.5 Penalties and remedies for violations of article.

<p>A. The Department shall impose the following penalties on any training center for violations of the requirements of this article:</p><p>1. Limit the type of instruction provided by the training center;</p><p>2. Suspend or revoke the license of the training center;</p><p>3. Impose a civil penalty as set forth in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1190.7/'>46.2-1190.7</a>; or</p><p>4. Impose any combination of the penalties set forth in this subsection.</p><p>B. When violations occur that are not found by the Department to pose a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the public or the course participants, instructors or others associated with the course, the Department shall (i) notify the training center of the violations that have occurred, (ii) direct corrective action to be completed by the training center within 30 calendar days, and (iii) require a formal written response documenting that corrections have been made as directed. Such violations shall typically be associated with, but not limited to, training center administration and operations. If corrections are not completed as directed, the Department shall notify the training center and may impose any or all of the sanctions set forth in subsection A of this section. Such penalties shall continue until all required corrections are made and the Department receives formal documentation confirming compliance.</p><p>The Department shall suspend the license of any training center that receives three or more notices under this subsection within any 12-month period. Such suspensions shall be for an initial 90-day period and shall continue until all required corrections are made and the Department receives formal documentation confirming compliance.</p><p>C. When violations occur that are found by the Department to pose a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the public or the course participants, instructors or others associated with the course, the Department shall (i) notify the training center of the violations that have occurred and immediately limit all types of instruction provided by the training center, (ii) direct corrective action to be completed by the training center within 30 calendar days of receipt of notice of such violations and (iii) shall require a formal written response documenting that corrections have been made as directed. If corrections are not completed as directed, the Department shall suspend the license of the training center and impose a civil penalty as set forth in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-1190.7/'>46.2-1190.7</a>. The period of such license suspension shall continue until all required corrections are made and the Department receives formal documentation confirming compliance. If the required corrections are not made within 30 calendar days of the suspension, the Department shall revoke the license.</p><p>D. Once a training center license is revoked, the Department shall not renew or reissue the license until (i) it receives formal documentation confirming compliance with the required corrective actions, and (ii) the training center applies for renewal or reissuance. Such training centers shall not be eligible to apply for a license again until 180 calendar days after the Department receives formal documentation confirming compliance with the required corrective actions.</p><p>E. Notice of an order suspending or revoking a license, imposing a limitation on training center operations or imposing a civil penalty, and advising the licensee of the opportunity for a hearing as a result of such order, shall be in writing and mailed to the licensee by registered mail to the training center address as shown on the most recent licensee's application for license and shall be considered served when mailed.</p><p>Upon receipt of a request for a hearing appealing the order, the licensee shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 30 days from receipt of the hearing request. The order shall remain in effect pending the outcome of the hearing.</p><p>2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0734'>734</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0226'>226</a>.</p>