# ยง 8.8A-304 Endorsement.

<p>(a) An endorsement may be in blank or special. An endorsement in blank includes an endorsement to bearer. A special endorsement specifies to whom a security is to be transferred or who has power to transfer it. A holder may convert a blank endorsement to a special endorsement.</p><p>(b) An endorsement purporting to be only of part of a security certificate representing units intended by the issuer to be separately transferable is effective to the extent of the endorsement.</p><p>(c) An endorsement, whether special or in blank, does not constitute a transfer until delivery of the certificate on which it appears or, if the endorsement is on a separate document, until delivery of both the document and the certificate.</p><p>(d) If a security certificate in registered form has been delivered to a purchaser without a necessary endorsement, the purchaser may become a protected purchaser only when the endorsement is supplied. However, against a transferor, a transfer is complete upon delivery and the purchaser has a specifically enforceable right to have any necessary endorsement supplied.</p><p>(e) An endorsement of a security certificate in bearer form may give notice of an adverse claim to the certificate, but it does not otherwise affect a right to registration that the holder possesses.</p><p>(f) Unless otherwise agreed, a person making an endorsement assumes only the obligations provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.8A-108/'>8.8A-108</a> and not an obligation that the security will be honored by the issuer.</p><p>1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>.</p>