# ยง 45.2-1301  Dams and mine refuse piles; construction.

<p>A. Any water-retaining or silt-retaining dam or mine refuse pile or modification of an existing water-retaining or silt-retaining dam or mine refuse pile shall be designed and constructed by or under the direction of a qualified engineer if such dam or pile is designed to impound water or silt to a height of (i) five feet or more above the lowest natural ground level within the impounded area and has a storage volume of 50 acre-feet or more or (ii) 20 feet or more, regardless of storage volume.</p><p>B. Designs, construction specifications, and other related data, including final abandonment plans, for a water-retaining or silt-retaining dam or mine refuse pile shall be approved and certified by the qualified engineer as specified in subsection A and by the licensed operator or his agent.</p><p>C. The designs, construction specifications, and other related data approved and certified in accordance with subsection B shall be submitted for approval to the Director. If the Director approves the submittal, he shall notify the licensed operator in writing. If the Director disapproves the submittal, he shall notify the licensed operator with his written objections and required amendments. The Director shall approve or disapprove the submittal within 30 days following receipt thereof.</p><p>1997, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0390'>390</a>, ยง 45.1-225.1; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0695'>695</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>