# § 58.1-2500 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter the term or phrase:</p><p>"Commission" means the State Corporation Commission.</p><p>"Company" means any association, aggregation of individuals, business, corporation, individual, joint-stock company, Lloyds type of organization, organization, partnership, receiver, reciprocal or inter-insurance exchange, trustee or society.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Taxation.</p><p>"Direct gross premium income" means the gross amount of all premiums, assessments, dues and fees collected, received or derived, or obligations taken therefor, from business in this Commonwealth during each year ending December 31, excluding premiums received for reinsurance assumed from licensed insurance companies, without any deduction for dividends paid or deduction on any other account except for premiums returned on cancelled policies, or on account of reduction in rates or reduction in the amount insured, and excluding premiums received or derived to provide insurance of the kinds classified in §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-102/'>38.2-102</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-109/'>38.2-109</a> issued on a group basis by an insurance company insuring its employees, agents and representatives. In computing direct gross premium income on insurance issued by mutual insurance companies other than life insurance companies, refunds or returns made to policyholders otherwise than for losses may be deducted.</p><p>"Estimated tax" means the amount which the insurance company estimates as the amount of the tax imposed by this chapter for the license year, measured by direct gross premium income received or derived in the taxable year.</p><p>"Insurance company" means any company engaged in the business of making contracts of insurance.</p><p>"License year" means the 12-month period beginning on July 1 next succeeding the taxable year and ending on June 30 of the subsequent year.</p><p>"Preceding year's tax" means the tax as ascertained on the preceding year's tax report.</p><p>"Subscriber fee income" means the gross premium or deposit income collected, received or derived from and credited to the accounts of subscribers from business in the Commonwealth during the preceding year ending December 31, decreased by all returns for cancellation and all amounts returned to subscribers or credited to their accounts as savings.</p><p>"Tax" means the amount derived by multiplying the direct gross premium income in the taxable year by the tax rate.</p><p>"Taxable year" means the calendar year preceding the license year upon the basis of which direct gross premium income is computed. The term includes, in the case of direct gross premium income for a fractional part of a calendar year, the period in which such direct gross premium income is received or derived from business in this Commonwealth.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 58-486, 58-502, 58-502.1, 58-502.2; 1952, c. 190; 1954, c. 207; 1966, c. 264; 1968, c. 13; 1978, c. 4; 1984, c. 675; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0365'>365</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0372'>372</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0850'>850</a>.</p>