# § 8.9A-523 Information from filing office; sale or license of records.

<p>(a) Acknowledgment of filing written record. -- If a person that files a written record requests an acknowledgment of the filing, the filing office shall send to the person an image of the record showing the number assigned to the record pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-519/'>8.9A-519</a> (a) (1) and the date and time of the filing of the record. However, if the person furnishes a copy of the record to the filing office, the filing office may instead:</p><p>(1) note upon the copy the number assigned to the record pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-519/'>8.9A-519</a> (a) (1) and the date and time of the filing of the record; and</p><p>(2) send the copy to the person.</p><p>(b) Acknowledgment of filing other record. -- If a person files a record other than a written record, the filing office shall communicate to the person an acknowledgment that provides:</p><p>(1) the information in the record;</p><p>(2) the number assigned to the record pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-519/'>8.9A-519</a> (a) (1); and</p><p>(3) the date and time of the filing of the record.</p><p>(c) Communication of requested information. -- The filing office shall communicate or otherwise make available in a record the following information to any person that requests it:</p><p>(1) whether there is on file on a date and time specified by the filing office, but not a date earlier than six business days before the filing office receives the request, any financing statement that:</p><p>(A) designates a particular debtor or, if the request so states, designates a particular debtor at the address specified in the request;</p><p>(B) has not lapsed under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-515/'>8.9A-515</a> with respect to all secured parties of record; and</p><p>(C) if the request so states, has lapsed under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-515/'>8.9A-515</a> and a record of which is maintained by the filing office under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-522/'>8.9A-522</a> (a);</p><p>(2) the date and time of filing of each financing statement; and</p><p>(3) the information provided in each financing statement.</p><p>(d) Medium for communicating information. -- In complying with its duty under subsection (c), the filing office may communicate information in any medium or, in the alternative, may provide the requestor with a list of persons that provide private record research services. However, if requested, the filing office shall communicate information by issuing its written certificate.</p><p>(e) Timeliness of filing office performance. -- The filing office shall perform the acts required by subsections (a) through (d) at the time and in the manner prescribed by filing-office rule, but not later than five business days after the filing office receives the request.</p><p>(f) Public availability of records. -- At least weekly, the State Corporation Commission shall offer to sell or license to the public on a nonexclusive basis, in bulk, copies of all records filed in it under this part, in every medium from time to time available to the filing office.</p><p>2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0244'>244</a>.</p>