# § 18.2-250 Possession of controlled substances unlawful.

<p>A. It is unlawful for any person knowingly or intentionally to possess a controlled substance unless the substance was obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in the course of his professional practice, or except as otherwise authorized by the Drug Control Act (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3400/'>54.1-3400</a> et seq.).</p><p>Upon the prosecution of a person for a violation of this section, ownership or occupancy of premises or vehicle upon or in which a controlled substance was found shall not create a presumption that such person either knowingly or intentionally possessed such controlled substance.</p><p>(a) Any person who violates this section with respect to any controlled substance classified in Schedule I or II of the Drug Control Act shall be guilty of a Class 5 felony, except that any person other than an inmate of a penal institution as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/53.1-1/'>53.1-1</a> or in the custody of an employee thereof who violates this section with respect to a cannabimimetic agent is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>(b) Any person other than an inmate of a penal institution as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/53.1-1/'>53.1-1</a> or in the custody of an employee thereof, who violates this section with respect to a controlled substance classified in Schedule III shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.</p><p>(b1) Violation of this section with respect to a controlled substance classified in Schedule IV shall be punishable as a Class 2 misdemeanor.</p><p>(b2) Violation of this section with respect to a controlled substance classified in Schedule V shall be punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor.</p><p>(c) Violation of this section with respect to a controlled substance classified in Schedule VI shall be punishable as a Class 4 misdemeanor.</p><p>B. The provisions of this section shall not apply to members of state, federal, county, city or town law-enforcement agencies, jail officers, or correctional officers, as defined in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/53.1-1/'>53.1-1</a>, certified as handlers of dogs trained in the detection of controlled substances when possession of a controlled substance or substances is necessary in the performance of their duties.</p><p>Code 1950, § 54-524.101:2; 1972, c. 798; 1973, c. 64; 1975, cc. 14, 15; 1976, c. 614; 1978, cc. 151, 177, 179; 1979, c. 435; 1980, c. 285; 1991, c. 649; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0116'>116</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0674'>674</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0719'>719</a>.</p>