# ยง 56-585.1:6 Pilot Programs to deploy electric power storage batteries.

<p>A. The Commission shall establish pilot programs under which each Phase I Utility and each Phase II Utility, as such terms are defined in subdivision A 1 of ยง <a href='/vacode/56-585.1/'>56-585.1</a>, shall submit a proposal to deploy electric power storage batteries. A proposal shall provide for the deployment of batteries pursuant to a pilot program that accomplishes at least one of the following: (i) improve reliability of electrical transmission or distribution systems; (ii) improve integration of different types of renewable resources; (iii) deferred investment in generation, transmission, or distribution of electricity; (iv) reduced need for additional generation of electricity during times of peak demand; or (v) connection to the facilities of a customer receiving generation, transmission, and distribution service from the utility. A Phase I Utility may install batteries with up to 10 megawatts of capacity. A Phase II Utility may install batteries with up to 30 megawatts of capacity. Each pilot program shall have a duration of five years. The pilot program shall provide for the recovery of all reasonable and prudent costs incurred under the pilot program through the electric utility's base rates on a nondiscriminatory basis. Any pilot program proposed by a Phase I Utility or Phase II Utility that satisfies the requirements of this subsection is in the public interest.</p><p>B. The Commission shall, by December 1, 2018, adopt such rules or establish such guidelines as may be necessary for the general administration of pilot programs to deploy electric power storage batteries established by subsection A.</p><p>2018, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0296'>296</a>.</p>