# ยง 56-487 Definitions.

<p>The following terms, whenever used or referred to in this chapter, shall have the following meanings, unless a different meaning appears from the context:</p><p>(1) "Cooperative" shall mean a telephone corporation formed under this chapter.</p><p>(2) "Municipality" shall mean any city or incorporated town of the Commonwealth.</p><p>(3) "Person" shall mean and include natural persons, firms, associations, cooperatives, corporations, business trusts, partnerships and bodies politic.</p><p>(4) "Telephone service" shall mean and include service over wire or cable lines, including voice carrier, service by voice carrier system over electric distribution and transmission lines, service over radio circuits, and any other service involving the transmission of voice, video or data between fixed points.</p><p>(5) "Acquire" shall mean and include construct, acquire by purchase, lease, devise, gift or the exercise of the power of eminent domain, or other mode of acquisition.</p><p>(6) "System" shall mean and include any plant, works, system, facilities, or properties, or any part or parts thereof, together with all appurtenances thereto, used or useful in connection with the transmission of voice, video or data.</p><p>(7) "Obligations" shall mean and include bonds, interim certificates or receipts, notes, debentures, and all other evidences of indebtedness either issued or the payment thereof assumed by a cooperative.</p><p>(8) "Federal agency" shall mean and include the United States of America, the President of the United States of America, and any and all other authorities, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States of America, heretofore or hereafter created.</p><p>(9) "Improve" shall mean and include construct, reconstruct, improve, replace, extend, enlarge, alter, better or repair.</p><p>(10) "Board" shall mean the board of directors of a cooperative formed under this chapter.</p><p>(11) "Member" shall mean and include each person admitted to membership in the cooperative pursuant to law or its bylaws.</p><p>1950, p. 588; 1956, c. 434; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0708'>708</a>.</p>