# ยง 2.2-2821 Workers' compensation insurance plan for state employees trust fund for payment of claims.

<p>A. The Workers' Compensation Insurance Program (the Program) established under former ยง 2.1-526.10 and administered by the Department of General Services through its Division of Risk Management is hereby continued and transferred to the Department of Human Resource Management.</p><p>B. The Program shall be established through a program of self-insurance, purchased insurance or a combination of self-insurance and purchased insurance that is determined to be the most cost effective on a statewide basis and will be of less cost to the Commonwealth than the aggregate of individual agency policies. If the Department of Human Resource Management is informed by the Office of the Attorney General that it will not provide a defense due to a conflict or other appropriate reason, the Department shall provide for payment of attorneys' fees and expenses incurred in defending workers' compensation claims against the Commonwealth, its agencies and institutions.</p><p>C. The Program shall provide for the establishment of a trust fund for the payment of claims covered under the Program. The funds shall be invested as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-1806/'>2.2-1806</a>, and interest shall be added to the fund as earned. The trust fund shall also provide for payment of administrative costs, contractual costs, and other necessary expenses related to the administration of the Program.</p><p>D. The Program shall be submitted to the Governor for approval prior to implementation.</p><p>E. The Department of Human Resource Management may confer with the proper officials or employees of all agencies and institutions of the Commonwealth for the purpose of providing loss prevention programs. The Department may seek the assistance of state agencies, risk management consulting companies, loss prevention engineering companies, and their representatives in devising means by which causes of loss may be reduced or eliminated.</p><p>F. Information contained in investigative reports of any state or local police department, sheriff's office, fire department or fire marshal relevant to the Program established pursuant to this section shall be made available upon request by the Department. Information so requested shall be furnished within a reasonable time, not to exceed thirty days.</p><p>2000, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0633'>633</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0697'>697</a>, ยง 2.1-114.5:02; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>.</p>