# ยง 36-107.1 Sale of residential structure with lead-based paint levels exceeding Code standards; penalty.

<p>Whenever any property owner has been notified by local building officials or representatives of local health departments that any residential premises has levels of lead-based paint in violation of this chapter, such property owner shall notify prospective purchasers in writing of the presence of unacceptable levels of lead-based paint in such premises and the requirements concerning the removal of the same. Such notification shall include a copy of any notice the property owner received from local building officials or representatives of local health departments advising of the presence of unacceptable levels of lead-based paint in such premises.</p><p>The notice required herein shall be provided to prospective purchasers prior to the signing of a purchase or sales agreement or, if there is no purchase or sales agreement, prior to the signing of a deed. The requirements shall not apply to purchase and sales agreements or deeds signed prior to July 1, 1991. Transactions in which sellers have accepted written offers prior to July 1, 1991, but have not signed a purchase or sales agreement or a deed prior to July 1, 1991, shall be subject to the notice requirements.</p><p>Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this section shall be liable for all damages caused by his failure to comply and shall, in addition, be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.</p><p>1991, c. 266.</p>