# ยง 46.2-341.14:3 Application for certification by the Department.

<p>A. Application for third party tester certification.</p><p>1. An applicant for certification shall provide the following information in a format prescribed by the Department:</p><p>a. Name, address, and telephone number of principal office or headquarters;</p><p>b. Name, title, address, and telephone number of an individual in the Commonwealth who has been designated to be the applicant's contact person with the Department;</p><p>c. Description of the vehicle fleet owned or leased by the applicant, including the number of commercial motor vehicles by class and type;</p><p>d. Classes and types of commercial motor vehicles for which the applicant seeks to be certified as a third party tester;</p><p>e. Total number of drivers licensed in the Commonwealth employed during the preceding 12 months to operate commercial motor vehicles and the number of such drivers who are full time, part time, and seasonal. However, this provision shall not apply to a comprehensive community college in the Virginia Community College System certified as a third party tester for the purposes of administering tests to students enrolled in a commercial driver training course offered by such community college;</p><p>f. Name, driver's license number, and home address of each employee who is to be certified as a third party examiner. If any employee has previously been certified as an examiner by the Department, the examiner's certification number;</p><p>g. The address of each location in the Commonwealth where the third party tester intends to conduct skills tests and a map, drawing, or written description of each driving course that satisfies the Department's requirements for a skills test course;</p><p>h. If the applicant is not a governmental entity, including a comprehensive community college in the Virginia Community College System, it shall also provide: (i) a description of the applicant's business and length of time in business in the Commonwealth; (ii) if subject to the FMCSA regulations, the applicant's Interstate Commerce Commission number or U.S. Department of Transportation number and rating; and (iii) the applicant's State Corporation Commission number; and</p><p>i. Any other relevant information required by the Department.</p><p>2. An applicant for certification shall also execute an agreement in a format prescribed by the Department in which the applicant agrees, at a minimum, to comply with the regulations and instructions of the Department for third party testers, including audit procedures, and agrees to hold the Department harmless from liability resulting from the third party tester's administration of its commercial driver's license skills test program.</p><p>B. Application for third party examiner certification.</p><p>1. An applicant for certification shall provide the following information in a format prescribed by the Department:</p><p>a. Name, home, and business addresses and telephone numbers;</p><p>b. Driver's license number;</p><p>c. Name, address, and telephone number of the principal office or headquarters of the applicant's employer, who has applied for and received certification as a third party tester;</p><p>d. Job title and description of duties and responsibilities;</p><p>e. Length of time employed by present employer. If less than two years, list previous employer, address, and telephone number;</p><p>f. Present employer's recommendation of the applicant for certification;</p><p>g. A list of the classes and types of vehicles for which the applicant seeks certification to conduct skills tests; and</p><p>h. Any other relevant information required by the Department.</p><p>C. Evaluation of applicant by the Department.</p><p>1. The Department will evaluate the materials submitted by the third party tester applicant, and, if the application materials are satisfactory, the Department will schedule an onsite inspection and audit of the applicant's third party testing program to complete the evaluation.</p><p>2. The Department will evaluate the materials submitted by the third party examiner applicant as well as the applicant's driving record. If the application materials and driving record are satisfactory, the Department will schedule the applicant for third party examiner training. Training may be waived if the applicant is seeking recertification only because he has changed employers.</p><p>3. No more than two applications will be accepted from any one third party tester or examiner applicant in any 12-month period, excluding applications for recertification because of a change in employers.</p><p>2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0165'>165</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0582'>582</a>; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0429'>429</a>.</p>