# § 54.1-3410 When pharmacist may sell and dispense drugs.

<p>A. A pharmacist, acting in good faith, may sell and dispense drugs and devices to any person pursuant to a prescription of a prescriber as follows:</p><p>1. A drug listed in Schedule II shall be dispensed only upon receipt of a written prescription that is properly executed, dated and signed by the person prescribing on the day when issued and bearing the full name and address of the patient for whom, or of the owner of the animal for which, the drug is dispensed, and the full name, address, and registry number under the federal laws of the person prescribing, if he is required by those laws to be so registered. If the prescription is for an animal, it shall state the species of animal for which the drug is prescribed;</p><p>2. In emergency situations, Schedule II drugs may be dispensed pursuant to an oral prescription in accordance with the Board's regulations;</p><p>3. Whenever a pharmacist dispenses any drug listed within Schedule II on a prescription issued by a prescriber, he shall affix to the container in which such drug is dispensed, a label showing the prescription serial number or name of the drug; the date of initial filling; his name and address, or the name and address of the pharmacy; the name of the patient or, if the patient is an animal, the name of the owner of the animal and the species of the animal; the name of the prescriber by whom the prescription was written, except for those drugs dispensed to a patient in a hospital pursuant to a chart order; and such directions as may be stated on the prescription.</p><p>B. A drug controlled by Schedules III through VI or a device controlled by Schedule VI shall be dispensed upon receipt of a written or oral prescription as follows:</p><p>1. If the prescription is written, it shall be properly executed, dated and signed by the person prescribing on the day when issued and bear the full name and address of the patient for whom, or of the owner of the animal for which, the drug is dispensed, and the full name and address of the person prescribing. If the prescription is for an animal, it shall state the species of animal for which the drug is prescribed. If the prescription is for expedited partner therapy pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3303/'>54.1-3303</a> and the contact patient's name and address are unavailable, the prescription shall state "Expedited Partner Therapy" or "EPT" in lieu of the full name and address of the contact patient.</p><p>2. If the prescription is oral, the prescriber shall furnish the pharmacist with the same information as is required by law in the case of a written prescription for drugs and devices, except for the signature of the prescriber.</p><p>A pharmacist who dispenses a Schedule III through VI drug or device shall label the drug or device as required in subdivision A 3 of this section. However, if the pharmacist dispenses a Schedule III through VI drug or device for expedited partner therapy pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3303/'>54.1-3303</a> and the contact patient's name and address are unavailable, the prescription shall state "Expedited Partner Therapy" or "EPT" in lieu of the full name and address of the contact patient.</p><p>C. A drug controlled by Schedule VI may be refilled without authorization from the prescriber if, after reasonable effort has been made to contact him, the pharmacist ascertains that he is not available and the patient's health would be in imminent danger without the benefits of the drug. The refill shall be made in compliance with the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3411/'>54.1-3411</a>.</p><p>If the written or oral prescription is for a Schedule VI drug or device and does not contain the address or registry number of the prescriber, or the address of the patient, the pharmacist need not reduce such information to writing if such information is readily retrievable within the pharmacy. If the prescription is for a Schedule VI drug or device for expedited partner therapy pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3303/'>54.1-3303</a> and the contact patient's name and address are unavailable, then labeling the name and address of the contact patient is not required.</p><p>D. Pursuant to authorization of the prescriber, an agent of the prescriber on his behalf may orally transmit a prescription for a drug classified in Schedules III through VI if, in such cases, the written record of the prescription required by this subsection specifies the full name of the agent of the prescriber transmitting the prescription.</p><p>E. A dispenser who receives a non-electronic prescription for a controlled substance containing an opioid is not required to verify that one of the exceptions set forth in § <a href='/vacode/54.1-3408.02/'>54.1-3408.02</a> applies and may dispense such controlled substance pursuant to such prescription and applicable law.</p><p>1970, c. 650, § 54-524.67; 1972, c. 798; 1976, c. 614; 1977, c. 302; 1983, cc. 395, 612; 1988, c. 765; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0408'>408</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0511'>511</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0115'>115</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0429'>429</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0664'>664</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0464'>464</a>.</p>