# § 8.9A-322 Priorities among conflicting security interests in and agricultural liens on same collateral.

<p>(a) General priority rules. Except as otherwise provided in this section, priority among conflicting security interests and agricultural liens in the same collateral is determined according to the following rules:</p><p>(1) Conflicting perfected security interests and agricultural liens rank according to priority in time of filing or perfection. Priority dates from the earlier of the time a filing covering the collateral is first made or the security interest or agricultural lien is first perfected, if there is no period thereafter when there is neither filing nor perfection.</p><p>(2) A perfected security interest or agricultural lien has priority over a conflicting unperfected security interest or agricultural lien.</p><p>(3) The first security interest or agricultural lien to attach or become effective has priority if conflicting security interests and agricultural liens are unperfected.</p><p>(b) Time of perfection; proceeds and supporting obligations. For the purposes of subsection (a) (1):</p><p>(1) the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in collateral is also the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in proceeds; and</p><p>(2) the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in collateral supported by a supporting obligation is also the time of filing or perfection as to a security interest in the supporting obligation.</p><p>(c) Special priority rules: proceeds and supporting obligations. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (f), a security interest in collateral which qualifies for priority over a conflicting security interest under §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-327/'>8.9A-327</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-328/'>8.9A-328</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-329/'>8.9A-329</a>, <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-330/'>8.9A-330</a> or § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-331/'>8.9A-331</a> also has priority over a conflicting security interest in:</p><p>(1) any supporting obligation for the collateral; and</p><p>(2) proceeds of the collateral if:</p><p>(A) the security interest in proceeds is perfected;</p><p>(B) the proceeds are cash proceeds or of the same type as the collateral; and</p><p>(C) in the case of proceeds that are proceeds of proceeds, all intervening proceeds are cash proceeds, proceeds of the same type as the collateral, or an account relating to the collateral.</p>(d) First-to-file priority rule for certain collateral. Subject to subsection (e) and except as otherwise provided in subsection (f), if a security interest in chattel paper, deposit accounts, negotiable documents, instruments, investment property, or letter-of-credit rights is perfected by a method other than filing, conflicting perfected security interests in proceeds of the collateral rank according to priority in time of filing.<p>(e) Applicability of subsection (d). Subsection (d) applies only if the proceeds of the collateral are not cash proceeds, chattel paper, negotiable documents, instruments, investment property, or letter-of-credit rights.</p><p>(f) Limitations on subsections (a) through (e). Subsections (a) through (e) are subject to:</p><p>(1) subsection (g) and the other provisions of this part;</p><p>(2) § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.4-210/'>8.4-210</a> with respect to a security interest of a collecting bank;</p><p>(3) § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.5A-118/'>8.5A-118</a> with respect to a security interest of an issuer or nominated person; and</p><p>(4) § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/8.9A-110/'>8.9A-110</a> with respect to a security interest arising under Title 8.2 or Title 8.2A.</p><p>(g) Priority under agricultural lien statute. A perfected agricultural lien on collateral has priority over a conflicting security interest in or agricultural lien on the same collateral if the statute creating the agricultural lien so provides.</p><p>Code 1950, § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/43-27/'>43-27</a>; 1964, c. 219, § 8.9-312; 1966, c. 557; 1973, c. 509; 1983, c. 204; 1984, c. 613; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP1007'>1007</a>.</p>