# ยง 46.2-1609 Penalties.

<p>A. First violations of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor, and second and subsequent violations of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a Class 5 felony. Upon receipt of any such conviction, the Commissioner may suspend, revoke, cancel, or refuse to renew the license of any licensee under this chapter, and the Commissioner may also assess a civil penalty against such licensee not to exceed $2,500 for any conviction.</p><p>B. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any licensee violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the Commissioner not to exceed $1,000 for any single violation.</p><p>C. Notice of an order suspending, revoking, canceling, or denying renewal of a license, imposing a limitation on operation, or imposing a civil penalty and advising the licensee of the opportunity for a hearing shall be mailed to the licensee by first-class mail to the address as shown on the licensee's most recent application for a license and shall be considered served when mailed. No order required by this section shall become effective until the Commissioner has offered the licensee an opportunity for an administrative hearing to show cause why the order should not be enforced. Notice of the opportunity for an administrative hearing may be included in the order. Any request for an administrative hearing made by such person must be received by the Department within 30 days of the issuance date of the order unless the person presents to the Department evidence of military service as defined by the federal Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. ยง 3901 et seq.), incarceration, commitment, hospitalization, or physical presence outside the United States at the time the order was issued.</p><p>D. Upon receipt of a request for a hearing appealing the suspension or imposition of civil penalties, the licensee shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 30 days from receipt of the hearing request. Any suspension shall remain in effect pending the outcome of the hearing.</p><p>1979, c. 401, ยง 46.1-550.14; 1989, c. 727; 1992, c. 148; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0824'>824</a>; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0058'>58</a>.</p>