# ยง 66-34 Youth services citizen boards; appointment and qualifications of members.

<p>A. Each county and city participating in a program funded by an approved grant shall be represented on a youth services citizen board (the board). The board shall be appointed by the county or city governing body or combination thereof. The board may be composed of (i) representative elected officials, representatives of public and private agencies serving youths, representatives of local law enforcement, and citizens not employed by government or service agencies, including one representative of the faith community and one representative of the business community, or (ii) the community policy and management team established pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/2.2-5204/'>2.2-5204</a> or a similar entity, as approved by the Department, provided that such board or entity (a) includes, for the purposes of this section, at least one representative of the faith community who is not employed by a government or service agency, one representative of the business community who is not employed by a government or service agency, and one representative of local law enforcement and (b) complies with any other requirements imposed by the Department. No board member may have an interest in any organization or program that receives grant funds pursuant to this chapter.</p><p>B. The board shall actively participate with community representatives in the formulation of a comprehensive plan for the development, coordination, and evaluation of the youth services program and shall make formal recommendations to the governing authority or authorities at least annually concerning the comprehensive plan and its implementation during the ensuing year.</p><p>C. The board may establish a youth advisory team for the purposes of consultation and advice regarding the youth services program. If the board establishes a youth advisory team, the board (i) shall consult with and consider the recommendations of the youth advisory team prior to making recommendations to the local governing body pursuant to subsection B and (ii) may apply to the Department for additional funding to support the youth advisory team.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 53-342; 1979, c. 698; 1982, c. 636, ยง 53.1-259; 1989, c. 733; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0277'>277</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0522'>522</a>.</p>