# § 15.2-5109 Dissolution and termination of authority.

<p>Whenever the board of an authority determines that the purposes for which it was created have been completed or are impractical or impossible or that its functions have been taken over by one or more political subdivisions and that all its obligations have been paid or have been assumed by one or more of such political subdivisions or any authority created thereby or that cash or United States government securities have been deposited for their payment, it shall adopt and file with the governing body of each political subdivision which is a member of the authority a resolution declaring such facts. If all the governing bodies adopt resolutions concurring in such declaration and finding that the authority should be dissolved, they shall file appropriate articles of dissolution with the State Corporation Commission. When the affairs of the authority have been wound up and all of its assets have been distributed, the governing bodies shall file appropriate articles of termination of corporate existence with the State Corporation Commission.</p><p>If any of the governing bodies refuse to adopt resolutions concurring in such declaration, then the authority may petition the circuit court for any locality which is a member of the authority to order one or more of such governing bodies to create a new authority. The circuit court may order the governing body of the political subdivision requesting dissolution of the existing authority to adopt an ordinance establishing a new authority to which the provisions of §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5102/'>15.2-5102</a> through <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5106/'>15.2-5106</a> shall not apply. Thereafter, the court may order that the assets be divided among the authorities and, subject to the approval of any debt holder, require the assumption of a proportionate share of the obligations of the existing authority by the new authority.</p><p>Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision 1 of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-5114/'>15.2-5114</a>, an authority shall continue in existence and shall not be dissolved because the term for which it was created, including any extensions thereof, has expired, unless all of such authority's functions have been taken over and its obligations have been paid or have been assumed by one or more political subdivisions or by an authority created thereby, or cash or United States government securities have been deposited for their payment.</p><p>1970, c. 617, § 15.1-1269.1; 1982, c. 662; 1997, c. 587; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0216'>216</a>.</p>