# § 58.1-816.1 Transportation Improvement Program Set-aside Fund.

<p>There is hereby created in the Department of the Treasury a special nonreverting fund which shall be a part of the Transportation Trust Fund established pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/33.2-1524.1/'>33.2-1524.1</a> and which shall be known as the Transportation Improvement Program Set-aside Fund ("Set-aside Fund"), consisting of transfers pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/58.1-816/'>58.1-816</a> of annual collections of the state recordation taxes attributable to any local jurisdiction which adopts an ordinance to dedicate and use its share of state recordation tax distributions for transportation purposes; however, this dedication shall not affect the local recordation taxes under §§ <a href='/vacode/58.1-802/'>58.1-802</a> B and <a href='/vacode/58.1-814/'>58.1-814</a>. Any local jurisdiction making such an election shall transmit a copy of its ordinance to the State Treasurer at least ninety days before transfers to the Set-aside Fund are to take effect. The State Treasurer is hereby authorized to commingle the funds of the various local jurisdictions in the Set-aside Fund, subject to the establishment of an accounting system which allows for the separate tracking of each local jurisdiction's share. The election to participate in the Set-aside Fund shall be revocable by the passage of an ordinance to that effect; however, if debt has been issued or other obligations incurred on the local jurisdiction's behalf, the election to participate shall be irrevocable so long as such bonds, or other obligations, are outstanding. A permitted revocation shall entitle the local jurisdiction to receive its remaining share, plus earnings and less the Treasurer's investment charges.</p><p>The Set-aside Fund shall also include such other funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly from time to time and designated for the Set-aside Fund and all interest, dividends and appreciation which may accrue thereto. Any moneys remaining in the Set-aside Fund at the end of a biennium shall not revert to the general fund, but shall remain in the Set-aside Fund. Allocations from the Set-aside Fund may be paid to any authority, locality or commission for the purposes of paying the costs of any Transportation Improvement Program in which the local jurisdiction elects to participate.</p><p>1993, c. 391; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>