# ยง 45.2-704  Employment and duties of top persons; plan for excavation of shaft or slope.

<p>A. During the construction or modification of any shaft or slope mine, the person engaged in the actual construction or modification of such mine shall employ one or more top persons certified pursuant to ยง <a href='/vacode/45.2-534/'>45.2-534</a>. It is the duty of such top person to examine for proper and safe practices and materials used during the construction or modification of a shaft or slope mine. Such duties shall at all times be performed in the immediate vicinity of the shaft or slope under construction.</p><p>B. Prior to commencing the excavation of any shaft or slope, the operator shall submit to the Department a copy of the plan that includes the following: (i) the name and location of the mine and shaft or slope; (ii) a description of the work and methods to be used in the construction of the shaft or slope; (iii) a description of the methods to be used to ensure wall and roof stability; (iv) a description of the system of ventilation to be used, including procedures for evacuation of the shaft or slope if a fan stoppage occurs; (v) details of hoisting equipment to be used; and (vi) such other information as the Chief requires. The excavation of such shaft or slope shall not begin until the plan is approved by the Chief.</p><p>1980, c. 442, ยง 45.1-20.1; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.250; 2011, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0826'>826</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0862'>862</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>