# § 24.2-458 Methods of applying for military-overseas ballot.

<p>A. A covered voter who is registered to vote in this state may apply for a military-overseas ballot using either the regular absentee ballot application in use in the voter's jurisdiction under Chapter 7 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-700/'>24.2-700</a> et seq.) or the federal postcard application.</p><p>B. A covered voter who is not registered to vote in this state may use a federal postcard application to apply simultaneously to register to vote under § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-457/'>24.2-457</a> and for a military-overseas ballot.</p><p>C. The electoral board shall ensure that the system described in subsection C of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-455/'>24.2-455</a> is capable of accepting the submission of both a federal postcard application and any other approved military-overseas ballot application sent to the appropriate election official. The voter may use the system or any other approved method to apply for a military-overseas ballot.</p><p>D. A covered voter may use the declaration accompanying a federal write-in absentee ballot as an application for a military-overseas ballot simultaneously with the submission of the federal write-in absentee ballot.</p><p>E. To receive the benefits of this chapter, a covered voter must inform the appropriate election official that the voter is a covered voter. Methods of informing the appropriate election official that a voter is a covered voter include:</p><p>1. The use of a federal postcard application or federal write-in absentee ballot;</p><p>2. The use of an overseas address on an approved voter registration application or ballot application; and</p><p>3. The inclusion on an approved voter registration application or ballot application of other information sufficient to identify the voter as a covered voter.</p><p>F. This chapter does not preclude a covered voter from voting under Chapter 7 (§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/24.2-700/'>24.2-700</a> et seq.).</p><p>2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0353'>353</a>.</p>