# ยง 10.1-603.20 Condition for making loans or grants.

<p>A. The Director may authorize a loan or grant for flood prevention or protection projects, or for flood prevention or protection studies under the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-603.19/'>10.1-603.19</a> only when the following conditions exist:</p><p>1. An application for the loan or grant has been submitted by an applicant in the manner and form specified by the Director, setting forth the amount of the loan or grant requested, and the use to which the loan or grant will be applied. The application shall describe in detail (i) the area to be studied or protected, including the population and the value of property to be protected, historic flooding data and hydrologic studies projecting flood frequency; (ii) the estimated cost-benefit ratio of the project; (iii) the ability of the locality to provide its share of the cost; (iv) the administration of local flood plain management regulations; and (v) other necessary information to establish project or study priority.</p><p>2. The local government agrees and furnishes assurance, satisfactory to the Director, that it will satisfactorily maintain any structure financed, in whole or in part, through the loans or grants provided under this article.</p><p>3. If the requested loan or grant is sought to acquire land, the Director shall require satisfactory evidence prior to acting on the request that the local government will acquire the land if the loan or grant is made.</p><p>4. A local government is eligible to receive a grant once every five years, provided that it has a flood mitigation plan approved by the Director and has demonstrated satisfactory evidence of plan implementation. Lacking an approved plan the local government is eligible for a grant once every ten years.</p><p>5. [Repealed.]</p><p>B. The Director shall develop guidance criteria for making loans and grants for dam safety repair projects. Priority shall be given to making loans for high hazard dams.</p><p>1989, cc. 462, 498; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0510'>510</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0320'>320</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0648'>648</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>.</p>