# ยง 32.1-233 Radiation Advisory Board; composition; duties generally.

<p>A. The Radiation Advisory Board shall consist of ten appointive members and the six ex officio members specified below. The Governor shall appoint to the Advisory Board individuals from industry, labor and agriculture as well as individuals with scientific training in one or more of the following fields: radiology, medicine, radiation or health physics, or related sciences, with specialization in ionizing radiation. Not more than two individuals shall be specialists in any one of the above-named fields. Members of the Advisory Board shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. The Commissioner shall be an ex officio member and chairman of the Advisory Board. The Commissioner of Labor and Industry, the Commissioner of Agriculture and Consumer Services, the State Coordinator of Emergency Management, the Director of Environmental Quality, and the Director of the Virginia Institute of Marine Science shall be ex officio members of the Advisory Board.</p><p>B. The Advisory Board shall meet at least annually and shall:</p><p>1. Review and evaluate policies and programs of the Commonwealth relating to ionizing radiation; and</p><p>2. Make recommendations to the Commissioner and the Board of Health, the Director of Environmental Quality, and the Virginia Waste Management Board and furnish such technical advice as may be required, on matters relating to development, utilization and regulation of sources of ionizing radiation.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 32-414.5; 1964, c. 158; 1979, c. 711; 1980, c. 728; 1985, c. 448; 1987, c. 157; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0041'>41</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0466'>466</a>.</p>