# § 33.2-3401 Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority Capital Fund.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the state treasury a special nonreverting fund for the benefit of the Northern Virginia Transportation District to be known as the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority Capital Fund. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller. All revenues dedicated to the Fund pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/33.2-2400/'>33.2-2400</a>, <a href='/vacode/33.2-3404/'>33.2-3404</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-802.3/'>58.1-802.3</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-1741/'>58.1-1741</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-1743/'>58.1-1743</a>, and <a href='/vacode/58.1-2299.20/'>58.1-2299.20</a> shall be paid into the state treasury and credited to the Fund as set forth in subsection B and shall be used for the payment of capital purposes incurred, or to be incurred, by WMATA. Interest on moneys in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Any moneys remaining in the Fund, including interest thereon, at the end of each fiscal year shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. The Comptroller shall disburse funds to WMATA on a monthly basis if NVTC has provided the certification required by subsection B of § <a href='/vacode/33.2-3402/'>33.2-3402</a>.</p><p>B. 1. Within the Fund, there shall be established a separate, segregated account into which revenues dedicated to the Fund pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/33.2-2400/'>33.2-2400</a> and <a href='/vacode/58.1-1741/'>58.1-1741</a> shall be deposited (the Restricted Account). Revenues deposited into the Restricted Account shall be available for use by WMATA for capital purposes other than for the payment of, or security for, debt service on bonds or other indebtedness of WMATA.</p><p>2. Within the Fund, there shall be established a separate, segregated account into which revenues dedicated to the Fund pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/33.2-3404/'>33.2-3404</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-802.3/'>58.1-802.3</a>, <a href='/vacode/58.1-1743/'>58.1-1743</a>, and <a href='/vacode/58.1-2299.20/'>58.1-2299.20</a> shall be deposited (the Non-Restricted Account). Revenues deposited into the Non-Restricted Account shall be available for use by WMATA for capital purposes, including for the payment of, or security for, debt service on bonds or other indebtedness of WMATA, or for any other WMATA capital purposes.</p><p>C. The amounts deposited into the Fund and the distribution and expenditure of such amounts shall not be used to calculate or reduce the share of federal, state, or local revenues otherwise available to participating jurisdictions. Further, such revenues and moneys shall not be included in any computation of, or formula for, a locality's ability to pay for public education, upon which appropriations of state revenues to local governments for public education are determined.</p><p>2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0854'>854</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0856'>856</a>.</p>