# ยง 56-484.30 Agreements for use of public right-of-way to construct new wireless support structures; relocation of wireless support structures.

<p>Subject to any applicable requirements of Article VII, Section 9 of the Constitution of Virginia, public right-of-way permits or agreements for the construction of wireless support structures issued on or after July 1, 2017, shall be for an initial term of at least 10 years, with at least three options for renewal for terms of five years, subject to terms providing for earlier termination for cause or by mutual agreement. Nothing herein is intended to prohibit the Department or localities from requiring permittees to relocate wireless support structures when relocation is necessary due to a transportation project, the need to remove a hazard from the right-of-way when the Commissioner of Highways determines such removal is necessary to ensure the safety of the traveling public, or material change to the right-of-way, so long as other users of the right-of-way that are in similar conflict with the use of the right-of-way are required to relocate. Such relocation shall be completed as soon as reasonably possible within the time set forth in any written request by the Department or a locality for such relocation, as long as the Department or a locality provides the permittee with a minimum of 180 days' advance written notice to comply with such relocation, unless circumstances beyond the control of the Department or the locality require a shorter period of advance notice. The permittee shall bear only the proportional cost of the relocation that is caused by the transportation project and shall not bear any cost related to private benefit or where the permittee was on private right-of-way. If the locality or the Department bears any of the cost of the relocation, the permittee shall not be obligated to commence the relocation until it receives the funds for such relocation. The permittee shall have no liability for any delays caused by a failure to receive funds for the cost of such relocation, and the Department or a locality shall have no obligation to collect such funds. If relocation is deemed necessary, the Department or locality shall work cooperatively with the permittee to minimize any negative impact to the wireless signal caused by the relocation. There may be emergencies when relocation is required to commence in an expedited manner, and in such situations the permittee and the locality or Department shall work diligently to accomplish such emergency relocation.</p><p>2017, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>.</p>