# ยง 46.2-1547 License under this chapter prerequisite to receiving dealer's license plates; insurance required; Commissioner may revoke plates.

<p>No motor vehicle manufacturer, distributor, or dealer, unless licensed under this chapter, shall be entitled to receive or maintain any dealer's license plates. It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any dealer's license plates for which there is no automobile liability insurance coverage or a certificate of self-insurance as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/46.2-368/'>46.2-368</a> on any motor vehicle. No dealer's license plates shall be issued unless the dealer certifies to the Department that there is automobile liability insurance coverage or a certificate of self-insurance with respect to each dealer's license plate to be issued. Such automobile liability insurance or a certificate of self-insurance shall be maintained as to each dealer's license plate for so long as the registration for the dealer's license plate remains valid without regard to whether the plate is actually being used on a vehicle. If insurance or a certificate of self-insurance is not so maintained, the dealer's license plate shall be surrendered to the Department. The Commissioner shall revoke any dealer's license plate as to which there is no insurance or a certificate of self-insurance. The Commissioner may also revoke any dealer's license plate that has been used in any way not authorized by the provisions of this title.</p><p>The requirements relating to insurance in this article shall not apply to trailers or watercraft trailers.</p><p>1988, c. 865, ยง 46.1-550.5:5; 1989, c. 727; 1990, c. 954; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0767'>767</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0816'>816</a>; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0615'>615</a>.</p>