# ยง 64.2-509 List of heirs.

<p>A. Every personal representative of a decedent, whether the decedent died testate or intestate, shall, at the time of his qualification, and every proponent of a will where there is no qualification of a personal representative, shall, at the time the will is presented for probate, furnish a list of heirs under oath in accordance with a form provided to each clerk of court by the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court or a computer-generated facsimile thereof to the court or clerk where the personal representative qualifies and to the clerk of the circuit court for the jurisdiction where any real estate that is part of the decedent's estate is located.</p><p>B. If there has been no qualification of a personal representative within 30 days following the decedent's death, a list of heirs, made under oath in accordance with the form provided to each clerk or a computer-generated facsimile thereof, may be filed by any heir at law of a decedent who died intestate.</p><p>C. The clerk shall record the list of heirs in the will book and index the list in the name of the decedent and the heirs. A list of heirs made under oath and recorded pursuant to this section shall be prima facie evidence of the facts contained in the list. The cost of recording the list shall be deemed a part of the cost of administration and be paid out of the estate of the decedent.</p><p>D. The personal representative shall not receive any compensation for his services until the list of heirs is filed unless he files an affidavit before the commissioner of accounts that the heirs are unknown to him and that after diligent inquiry he has been unable to ascertain their names, ages, or addresses, as the case may be.</p><p>E. The list of heirs filed pursuant to this section shall reflect the heirs in existence on the date of the decedent's death. If there are any changes as to who should be included on the list of heirs, an additional list of heirs shall be filed that includes such changes.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 64-127; 1954, c. 182; 1968, cc. 384, 656, ยง 64.1-134; 1984, c. 339; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0327'>327</a>; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0610'>610</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0585'>585</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0614'>614</a>.</p>