# § 54.1-3459 Tagging of adulterated or misbranded drugs, devices, or cosmetics; condemnation; destruction; expenses.

<p>A. Whenever a duly authorized agent of the Board finds, or has probable cause to believe, that any drug, device, or cosmetic is adulterated, or so misbranded as to be dangerous or fraudulent, within the meaning of this chapter or is in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3457/'>54.1-3457</a>, he shall affix to such article a tag or other appropriate marking, giving notice that such article is, or is suspected of being, adulterated or misbranded or in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3457/'>54.1-3457</a> and has been detained. The tag shall also warn all persons not to remove or dispose of such article by sale or otherwise until permission for removal or disposal is given by an authorized agent or the court. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or dispose of such detained article by sale or otherwise without permission.</p><p>B. When an article is adulterated or misbranded or is in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3421/'>54.1-3421</a>, the Board may petition the circuit court in whose jurisdiction the article is detained for condemnation of such article. When an authorized agent finds that an article which has been detained is not adulterated or misbranded, or in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3421/'>54.1-3421</a>, he shall remove the tag or other marking.</p><p>C. If the court finds that a detained article is adulterated or misbranded, or in violation of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/54.1-3421/'>54.1-3421</a>, such article shall, after entry of the decree, be destroyed at the expense of the claimant, under the supervision of an authorized agent, and all court costs and fees, and storage and other proper expenses, shall be levied against the claimant or his agent. When the adulteration or misbranding can be corrected by proper labeling or processing of the article, the court shall order the article to be properly labeled or processed. The expense of the supervision shall be paid by the claimant. The article shall be returned to the claimant and the bond shall be discharged on the representation to the court by the Board that the article is no longer in violation of this chapter, and that the expenses of such supervision have been paid.</p><p>1970, c. 650, § 54-524.88; 1988, c. 765.</p>