# § 45.2-520  Certification of certain persons employed in coal mines; powers and duties of the Board.

<p>A. The Board of Coal Mining Examiners may require certification of persons who work in coal mines and persons whose duties and responsibilities in relation to coal mining require competency, skill, or knowledge in order to perform in a manner consistent with the preservation of the health and safety of persons and property. Each of the following certificates shall be issued by the Board, and a person who holds such a certificate is authorized to perform the tasks that the Act or any regulation adopted by the Board or by the Department requires to be performed by such certified person:</p><p>1. First-class mine foreman;</p><p>2. First-class shaft or slope foreman;</p><p>3. Surface foreman;</p><p>4. Preparation plant foreman;</p><p>5. Electrical maintenance foreman;</p><p>6. Dock foreman;</p><p>7. Top person;</p><p>8. Underground shot firer;</p><p>9. Surface blaster;</p><p>10. Hoisting engineer;</p><p>11. Electrical repairman;</p><p>12. Automatic elevator operator;</p><p>13. Mine inspector;</p><p>14. Qualified gas detector;</p><p>15. Diesel engine mechanic;</p><p>16. Diesel engine mechanic instructor;</p><p>17. First aid instructor;</p><p>18. Advanced first aid;</p><p>19. Chief electrician; and</p><p>20. General coal miner.</p><p>B. Certification shall also be required for any additional tasks that the Board requires by regulation.</p><p>C. The Board may adopt regulations necessary or incidental to the performance of duties or the execution of powers conferred under this title. Such regulations shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-4006/'>2.2-4006</a> et seq.) of the Administrative Process Act.</p><p>D. The Board may adopt regulations regarding on-site examinations of mine foremen conducted by mine inspectors pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/45.2-528/'>45.2-528</a>.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 45-23, 45-28, 45-31, 45-33.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, §§ 45.1-12, 45.1-14; 1972, c. 784; 1978, c. 729; 1980, c. 442; 1984, c. 237; 1993, c. 442; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, § 45.1-161.28; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>