# ยง 54.1-2715 Temporary permits for certain clinicians.

<p>A. The Board may issue a temporary permit to a graduate of a dental school or college or the dental department of an institution of higher education, who (i) has a D.D.S. or D.M.D. degree and is otherwise qualified, (ii) is not licensed to practice dentistry in Virginia, and (iii) has not failed an examination for a license to practice dentistry in the Commonwealth. Such temporary permits may be issued only to those eligible graduates who serve as clinicians in dental clinics operated by (a) the Virginia Department of Corrections, (b) the Virginia Department of Health, (c) the Virginia Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, or (d) a Virginia charitable corporation granted tax-exempt status under ยง 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and operating as a clinic for the indigent and uninsured that is organized for the delivery of primary health care services: (i) as a federal qualified health center designated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services or (ii) at a reduced or sliding fee scale or without charge.</p><p>B. Applicants for temporary permits shall be certified to the executive director of the Board by the Director of the Department of Corrections, the Commissioner of Health, the Commissioner of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, or the chief executive officer of a Virginia charitable corporation identified in subsection A. The holder of such a temporary permit shall not be entitled to receive any fee or other compensation other than salary. Such permits shall be valid for no more than two years and shall expire on the June 30 of the second year after their issuance, or shall terminate when the holder ceases to serve as a clinician with the certifying agency or charitable corporation. Such permits may be reissued annually or may be revoked at any time for cause. Reissuance or revocation of a temporary permit is in the discretion of the Board.</p><p>C. Dentists licensed pursuant to this chapter may practice as employees of the dental clinics operated as specified in subsection A.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 54-152; 1968, c. 604; 1970, c. 639; 1972, c. 805; 1975, c. 479; 1976, c. 327; 1985, c. 373; 1988, c. 765; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0549'>549</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0048'>48</a>; 2005, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0505'>505</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0176'>176</a>; 2009, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0813'>813</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0840'>840</a>.</p>