# ยง 56-265.15:1  Exemptions; routine maintenance.

<p>Nothing in this chapter shall apply to:</p><p>1. Any hand digging performed by an owner or occupant of a property.</p><p>2. The tilling of soil for agricultural purposes.</p><p>3. Any excavation done by a railroad when the excavation is made entirely on the land which the railroad owns and on which the railroad operates, provided there is no encroachment on any operator's rights-of-way or easements.</p><p>4. An excavation or demolition during an emergency, as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/56-265.15/'>56-265.15</a>, provided all reasonable precaution has been taken to protect the underground utility lines.</p><p>In the case of the state highway systems or streets and roads maintained by political subdivisions, officials of the Department of Transportation or the political subdivision where the use of such highways, roads, streets or other public way is impaired by an unforeseen occurrence shall determine the necessity of repair beginning immediately after the occurrence.</p><p>5. Any excavation for routine pavement maintenance, including patch type paving or the milling of pavement surfaces, upon the paved portion of any street, road, or highway of the Commonwealth provided that any such excavation does not exceed a depth of twelve inches (0.3 meter).</p><p>6. Any excavation for the purpose of mining pursuant to and in accordance with the requirements of a permit issued by the Department of Energy.</p><p>7. Any hand digging performed by an operator to locate the operator's utility lines in response to a notice of excavation from the notification center, provided all reasonable precaution has been taken to protect the underground utility lines.</p><p>8. Any installation of a sign that does not involve excavation as defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/56-265.15/'>56-265.15</a>.</p><p>1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0890'>890</a>; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0079'>79</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0841'>841</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0777'>777</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0832'>832</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0532'>532</a>.</p>