# ยง 28.2-648 Declaring certain ground in Mobjack Bay, in Gloucester and Mathews Counties, to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals.

<p>The following grounds in Mobjack Bay, Gloucester-Mathews Counties, contained within the following boundaries are declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use, in the same manner and to the same extent as if the rocks, beds, and shoals had been within the original Baylor survey:</p><p>Beginning at the westmost corner of W. E. Belvin's 79.25 acre oyster ground lease, designated as corner No. 2 of said lease, said point of beginning also being the northmost corner of additional Public Ground area of 1928, Gloucester County (Deep Rock); thence in a northerly direction along the west side of the said Belvin lease to corner No. 1 of said lease, corner No. 1 also being the southmost corner of John Carr's 84.85 acre oyster ground lease; thence in a northwesterly direction along the southwest side of John R. Carr's 84.85 acre oyster ground lease to corner No. 1 of said oyster ground lease; thence in a general northeasterly direction along the northwest side of John R. Carr's oyster lease to corner No. 2 of said lease, said corner also being the westmost corner of W. E. Belvin's 27.71 acre oyster ground lease; thence in a northeasterly direction along the northwest side of W. E. Belvin's oyster ground lease to corner No. 10 of said lease; thence in a southeasterly direction along the northeast side of W. E. Belvin's oyster ground lease to corner No. 6 of said lease; thence in a northeasterly direction to the southwest side of Public Ground No. 2, Mathews County; thence in a northwesterly direction along the southwest side of Public Ground No. 2, Mathews County, to a point, said point being the intersection of an additional area of Public Clamming Grounds, Gloucester County, with Public Oyster Ground No. 2, Mathews County; thence in a southwest course along additional area of Public Clamming Grounds, Gloucester County; thence in a southwesterly direction along the edge of additional area of Public Clamming Grounds in Gloucester County to a point; thence in a southeasterly direction along the additional area of Public Clamming Grounds, Gloucester County, to the point of beginning.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-204.6; 1958, c. 475; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-158; 1992, c. 836.</p>