# § 22.1-253.13:4 Standard 4. Student achievement and graduation requirements.

<p>A. Each local school board shall award diplomas to all secondary school students, including students who transfer from nonpublic schools or from home instruction, who meet the requirements prescribed by the Board and meet such other requirements as may be prescribed by the local school board and approved by the Board. Provisions shall be made to facilitate the transfer and appropriate grade placement of students from other public secondary schools, from nonpublic schools, or from home instruction as outlined in the standards for accreditation. The standards for accreditation shall include provisions relating to the completion of graduation requirements through Virtual Virginia. Further, reasonable accommodation to meet the requirements for diplomas shall be provided for otherwise qualified students with disabilities as needed.</p><p>In addition, each local school board may devise, vis-a-vis the award of diplomas to secondary school students, a mechanism for calculating class rankings that takes into consideration whether the student has taken a required class more than one time and has had any prior earned grade for such required class expunged.</p><p>Each local school board shall notify the parents of rising eleventh and twelfth grade students of (i) the requirements for graduation pursuant to the standards for accreditation and (ii) the requirements that have yet to be completed by the individual student.</p><p>B. Students identified as disabled who complete the requirements of their individualized education programs and meet certain requirements prescribed by the Board pursuant to regulations but do not meet the requirements for any named diploma shall be awarded Applied Studies diplomas by local school boards. The Board shall develop and implement statewide requirements for earning an Applied Studies diploma for implementation at the beginning of the 2022-2023 school year.</p><p>Each local school board shall notify the parent of such students with disabilities who have an individualized education program and who fail to meet the graduation requirements of the student's right to a free and appropriate education to age 21, inclusive, pursuant to Article 2 (§ <a href='/vacode/22.1-213/'>22.1-213</a> et seq.) of Chapter 13.</p><p>The Department shall develop guidance, in multiple languages, for students and parents conveying (i) the limitations of the applied studies diploma, (ii) key curriculum and testing decisions that reduce the likelihood that a student will be able to obtain a standard diploma, and (iii) a statement that the pursuit of an applied studies diploma may preclude a student's ability to pursue a standard diploma.</p><p>Each local school board shall provide guidance from the Department to parents of students with disabilities regarding the Applied Studies diploma and its limitations at a student's annual individualized education program meeting corresponding to grades three through 12 when curriculum or statewide assessment decisions are being made that impact the type of diploma for which the student can qualify.</p><p>C. Students who have completed a prescribed course of study as defined by the local school board shall be awarded certificates of program completion by local school boards if they are not eligible to receive a Board-approved diploma.</p><p>Each local school board shall provide notification of the right to a free public education for students who have not reached 20 years of age on or before August 1 of the school year, pursuant to Chapter 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/22.1-1/'>22.1-1</a> et seq.), to the parent of students who fail to graduate or who have failed to achieve graduation requirements as provided in the standards for accreditation. If such student who does not graduate or complete such requirements is a student for whom English is a second language, the local school board shall notify the parent of the student's opportunity for a free public education in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/22.1-5/'>22.1-5</a>.</p><p>D. In establishing graduation requirements, the Board shall:</p><p>1. Develop and implement, in consultation with stakeholders representing elementary and secondary education, higher education, and business and industry in the Commonwealth and including parents, policymakers, and community leaders in the Commonwealth, a Profile of a Virginia Graduate that identifies the knowledge and skills that students should attain during high school in order to be successful contributors to the economy of the Commonwealth, giving due consideration to critical thinking, creative thinking, collaboration, communication, and citizenship.</p><p>2. Emphasize the development of core skill sets in the early years of high school.</p><p>3. Establish multiple paths toward college and career readiness for students to follow in the later years of high school. Each such pathway shall include opportunities for internships, externships, and credentialing.</p><p>4. Provide for the selection of integrated learning courses meeting the Standards of Learning and approved by the Board to satisfy graduation requirements, which shall include Standards of Learning testing, as necessary.</p><p>5. Require students to complete at least one course in fine or performing arts or career and technical education, one course in United States and Virginia history, and two sequential elective courses chosen from a concentration of courses selected from a variety of options that may be planned to ensure the completion of a focused sequence of elective courses that provides a foundation for further education or training or preparation for employment.</p><p>6. Require that students (i) complete an Advanced Placement, honors, International Baccalaureate, or dual enrollment course; (ii) complete a high-quality work-based learning experience, as defined by the Board; or (iii) earn a career and technical education credential that has been approved by the Board, except when a career and technical education credential in a particular subject area is not readily available or appropriate or does not adequately measure student competency, in which case the student shall receive satisfactory competency-based instruction in the subject area to earn credit. The career and technical education credential, when required, could include the successful completion of an industry certification, a state licensure examination, a national occupational competency assessment, the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, or the Virginia workplace readiness skills assessment. The Department shall develop, maintain, and make available to each local school board a catalogue of the testing accommodations available to English language learners for each such certification, examination, assessment, and battery. Each local school board shall develop and implement policies to require each high school principal or his designee to notify each English language learner of the availability of such testing accommodations prior to the student's participation in any such certification, examination, assessment, or battery.</p><p>7. Require students to be trained in emergency first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and the use of automated external defibrillators, including hands-on practice of the skills necessary to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation.</p><p>8. Make provision in its regulations for students with disabilities to earn a diploma.</p><p>9. Require students to complete one virtual course, which may be a noncredit-bearing course.</p><p>10. Provide that students who complete elective classes into which the Standards of Learning for any required course have been integrated and achieve a passing score on the relevant Standards of Learning test for the relevant required course receive credit for such elective class.</p><p>11. Establish a procedure to facilitate the acceleration of students that allows qualified students, with the recommendation of the division superintendent, without completing the 140-hour class, to obtain credit for such class upon demonstrating mastery of the course content and objectives and receiving a passing score on the relevant Standards of Learning assessment. Nothing in this section shall preclude relevant school division personnel from enforcing compulsory attendance in public schools.</p><p>12. Provide for the award of credit for passing scores on industry certifications, state licensure examinations, and national occupational competency assessments approved by the Board.</p><p>School boards shall report annually to the Board the number of Board-approved industry certifications obtained, state licensure examinations passed, national occupational competency assessments passed, Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery assessments passed, and Virginia workplace readiness skills assessments passed, and the number of career and technical education completers who graduated. These numbers shall be reported as separate categories on the School Performance Report Card.</p><p>For the purposes of this subdivision, "career and technical education completer" means a student who has met the requirements for a career and technical concentration or specialization and all requirements for high school graduation or an approved alternative education program.</p><p>In addition, the Board may:</p><p>a. For the purpose of awarding credit, approve the use of additional or substitute tests for the correlated Standards of Learning assessment, such as academic achievement tests, industry certifications, or state licensure examinations; and</p><p>b. Permit students completing career and technical education programs designed to enable such students to pass such industry certification examinations or state licensure examinations to be awarded, upon obtaining satisfactory scores on such industry certification or licensure examinations, appropriate credit for one or more career and technical education classes into which relevant Standards of Learning for various classes taught at the same level have been integrated. Such industry certification and state licensure examinations may cover relevant Standards of Learning for various required classes and may, at the discretion of the Board, address some Standards of Learning for several required classes.</p><p>13. Provide for the waiver of certain graduation requirements (i) upon the Board's initiative or (ii) at the request of a local school board. Such waivers shall be granted only for good cause and shall be considered on a case-by-case basis.</p><p>14. Consider all computer science course credits earned by students to be science course credits, mathematics course credits, or career and technical education credits. The Board shall develop guidelines addressing how computer science courses can satisfy graduation requirements.</p><p>15. Permit local school divisions to waive the requirement for students to receive 140 clock hours of instruction upon providing the Board with satisfactory proof, based on Board guidelines, that the students for whom such requirements are waived have learned the content and skills included in the relevant Standards of Learning.</p><p>16. Provide for the award of verified units of credit for a satisfactory score, as determined by the Board, on the Preliminary ACT (PreACT) or Preliminary SAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT) examination.</p><p>17. Permit students to exceed a full course load in order to participate in courses offered by an institution of higher education that lead to a degree, certificate, or credential at such institution.</p><p>18. Permit local school divisions to waive the requirement for students to receive 140 clock hours of instruction after the student has completed the course curriculum and relevant Standards of Learning end-of-course assessment, or Board-approved substitute, provided that such student subsequently receives instruction, coursework, or study toward an industry certification approved by the local school board.</p><p>19. Permit any English language learner who previously earned a sufficient score on an Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate foreign language examination or an SAT II Subject Test in a foreign language to substitute computer coding course credit for any foreign language course credit required to graduate, except in cases in which such foreign language course credit is required to earn an advanced diploma offered by a nationally recognized provider of college-level courses.</p><p>20. Permit a student who is pursuing an advanced diploma and whose individualized education program specifies a credit accommodation for world language to substitute two standard units of credit in computer science for two standard units of credit in a world language. For any student that elects to substitute a credit in computer science for credit in world language, his or her school counselor must provide notice to the student and parent or guardian of possible impacts related to college entrance requirements.</p><p>E. In the exercise of its authority to recognize exemplary performance by providing for diploma seals:</p><p>1. The Board shall develop criteria for recognizing exemplary performance in career and technical education programs by students who have completed the requirements for a Board of Education-approved diploma and shall award seals on the diplomas of students meeting such criteria.</p><p>2. The Board shall establish criteria for awarding a diploma seal for science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) for the Board-approved diplomas. The Board shall consider including criteria for (i) relevant coursework; (ii) technical writing, reading, and oral communication skills; (iii) relevant training; and (iv) industry, professional, and trade association national certifications.</p><p>3. The Board shall establish criteria for awarding a diploma seal for excellence in civics education and understanding of our state and federal constitutions and the democratic model of government for the Board-approved diplomas. The Board shall consider including criteria for (i) successful completion of history, government, and civics courses, including courses that incorporate character education; (ii) voluntary participation in community service or extracurricular activities that includes the types of activities that shall qualify as community service and the number of hours required; and (iii) related requirements as it deems appropriate.</p><p>4. The Board shall establish criteria for awarding a diploma seal of biliteracy to any student who demonstrates proficiency in English and at least one other language for the Board-approved diplomas. The Board shall consider criteria including the student's (i) score on a College Board Advanced Placement foreign language examination, (ii) score on an SAT II Subject Test in a foreign language, (iii) proficiency level on an ACTFL Assessment of Performance toward Proficiency in Languages (AAPPL) measure or another nationally or internationally recognized language proficiency test, or (iv) cumulative grade point average in a sequence of foreign language courses approved by the Board.</p><p>F. The Board shall establish, by regulation, requirements for the award of a general achievement adult high school diploma for those persons who are not subject to the compulsory school attendance requirements of § <a href='/vacode/22.1-254/'>22.1-254</a> and have (i) achieved a passing score on a high school equivalency examination approved by the Board; (ii) successfully completed an education and training program designated by the Board; (iii) earned a Board-approved career and technical education credential such as the successful completion of an industry certification, a state licensure examination, a national occupational competency assessment, the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery, or the Virginia workplace readiness skills assessment; and (iv) satisfied other requirements as may be established by the Board for the award of such diploma.</p><p>G. To ensure the uniform assessment of high school graduation rates, the Board shall collect, analyze, report, and make available to the public high school graduation and dropout data using a formula prescribed by the Board.</p><p>H. The Board shall also collect, analyze, report, and make available to the public high school graduation and dropout data using a formula that excludes any student who fails to graduate because such student is in the custody of the Department of Corrections, the Department of Juvenile Justice, or local law enforcement. For the purposes of the Standards of Accreditation, the Board shall use the graduation rate required by this subsection.</p><p>I. The Board may promulgate such regulations as may be necessary and appropriate for the collection, analysis, and reporting of such data required by subsections G and H.</p><p>1988, cc. 645, 682; 1990, cc. 820, 839; 1993, c. 661; 1994, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0618'>618</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0790'>790</a>; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0828'>828</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0835'>835</a>; 1998, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0072'>72</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0602'>602</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0627'>627</a>; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0483'>483</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0500'>500</a>; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0688'>688</a>; 2004, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0509'>509</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0939'>939</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0955'>955</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0345'>345</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0584'>584</a>; 2007, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0034'>34</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0056'>56</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0234'>234</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0351'>351</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0859'>859</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?071+ful+CHAP0919'>919</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0351'>351</a>; 2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0490'>490</a>; 2010, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0080'>80</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0089'>89</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0162'>162</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0163'>163</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0313'>313</a>; 2011, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?111+ful+CHAP0209'>209</a>; 2012, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0454'>454</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0642'>642</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0498'>498</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0530'>530</a>; 2014, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0084'>84</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0590'>590</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0329'>329</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0564'>564</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0565'>565</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0591'>591</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0701'>701</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0702'>702</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0705'>705</a>; 2016, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0720'>720</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0750'>750</a>; 2017, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0330'>330</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?171+ful+CHAP0685'>685</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0139'>139</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0482'>482</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0512'>512</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0592'>592</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0716'>716</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0055'>55</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0580'>580</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0874'>874</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0451'>451</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0452'>452</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0355'>355</a>.</p>