# § 25.1-421 Buildings, structures and other improvements on real property.

<p>A. To the greatest extent practicable, where an interest in real property is acquired by a state agency, the state agency shall acquire an equal interest in all buildings, structures, or other improvements located upon the real property so acquired and that are required to be removed from such real property so acquired and that are determined to be adversely affected by the use to which such real property will be put.</p><p>B. For the purpose of determining the just compensation to be paid for any building, structure or other improvement required to be acquired as provided in subsection A, such building, structure or other improvement shall be deemed to be a part of the real property to be acquired, notwithstanding the right or obligation of a tenant, as against the owner of any other interest in the real property, to remove such building, structure or improvement at the expiration of his term. In such event, the tenant shall be paid an amount equal to the greater of (i) the fair market value that such building, structure or improvement contributes to the fair market value of the real property to be acquired or (ii) the fair market value of such building, structure or improvement to be removed from the real property.</p><p>C. Payment for such building, structures or improvements as set forth in subsections A and B shall not result in duplication of any payments otherwise authorized by other laws of the Commonwealth. No such payment shall be made unless the owner of the land involved disclaims all interest in the improvements of the tenant. In consideration for any such payment, the tenant shall assign, transfer and release all his right, title and interest in and to such improvements. Nothing with regard to such acquisition of buildings, structures or other improvements shall be construed to deprive the tenant of any rights to reject payment under this section and to obtain payment for such property interests in accordance with other laws of the Commonwealth.</p><p>D. The provisions of this section create no rights or liabilities and shall not affect the validity of any property acquisitions by purchase or condemnation.</p><p>1972, c. 738, §§ 25-235.1, 25-252; 2003, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?031+ful+CHAP0940'>940</a>.</p>