# § 38.2-2012 Collection of experience data; uniformity; compilations available to insurers and rate service organizations.

<p>A. The Commission may promulgate reasonable rules and statistical plans for each of the rating systems on file with it, which may be modified from time to time. These rules and plans shall be used by each insurer in the recording and reporting of its loss and countrywide expense experience, so that the experience of all insurers may be made available, at least annually, in the form and detail as may be necessary to aid the Commission in determining whether rating systems comply with the standards set forth in subsection A of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-2005/'>38.2-2005</a>. The rules and plans may also provide for the recording and reporting of expense experience items that are specially applicable to this Commonwealth and cannot be determined by prorating the countrywide expense experience.</p><p>B. In promulgating the rules and plans, the Commission shall give due consideration to (i) the rating systems on file with it and (ii) the rules and the form of the plans used for rating systems in other states so that the rules and plans may be as uniform as practicable among the several states. No insurer shall be required to record or report its loss experience on a classification basis that is inconsistent with the rating system filed by it or on its behalf.</p><p>C. The Commission may designate one or more rate service organizations or other agencies to assist it in gathering the experience data and making compilations of it. The compilations shall be made available, subject to reasonable rules promulgated by the Commission, to insurers and rate service organizations.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 38-253.36, 38-253.82; 1952, c. 317, § 38.1-261; 1986, c. 562.</p>