# ยง 9.1-188 Crisis intervention training program.

<p>The Department, in consultation with the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Services, the Department for Aging and Rehabilitative Services, and law-enforcement, brain injury, and mental health stakeholders, shall develop a crisis intervention training program divided into the following three categories: (i) a module of principles-based training to be included as a part of the compulsory minimum training standards subsequent to employment for all law-enforcement officers, (ii) a module of principles-based training to be included as a part of the basic training of and the recertification requirements for law-enforcement officers, and (iii) a comprehensive advanced training course for all persons involved in the crisis intervention team programs. Every locality shall establish or be part of a crisis intervention team program in accordance with the provisions of this article.</p><p>The curriculum for the basic training and recertification modules and the comprehensive advanced training course shall be approved for Department-certified in-service training credits for law-enforcement officers. All law-enforcement officers involved in a crisis intervention team program shall complete the comprehensive advanced training course in accordance with clause (iii). The comprehensive advanced training course's curriculum developed in accordance with clause (iii) shall include a module on brain injury as part of the four hours of mandatory training in legal issues.</p><p>2009, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?091+ful+CHAP0715'>715</a>; 2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0514'>514</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP0515'>515</a>; 2020, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?202+ful+CHAP0036'>36</a>.</p>