# ยง 33.2-2211 Revenues.

<p>The Commission is hereby authorized to fix, revise, charge, and collect tolls for the use of the project, and to contract with any person, partnership, association, or corporation desiring the use thereof, and to fix the terms, conditions, rents, and rates of charges for such use.</p><p>Such tolls shall be so fixed and adjusted in respect of the aggregate of tolls from the project in connection with which the bonds of any issue have been issued under the provisions of this chapter as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues, if any, to pay (i) the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the project and (ii) the principal of and the interest on such bonds as the same become due and payable, and to create reserves for such purposes. Such tolls shall not be subject to supervision or regulation by any other commission, board, bureau, or agency of the Commonwealth. The tolls and all other revenues derived from the project in connection with which the bonds of any issue have been issued, except such part thereof as may be necessary to pay such cost of maintenance, repair, and operation and to provide such reserves therefor as may be provided for in the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or in the trust indenture securing the same, shall be set aside at such regular intervals as may be provided in such resolution or such trust indenture in a sinking fund that is hereby pledged to, and charged with, the payment of the principal of and the interest on such bonds as the same become due, and the redemption price or the purchase price of bonds retired by call or purchase as therein provided. Such pledge shall be valid and binding from the time when the pledge is made; the tolls or other revenues or other moneys so pledged and thereafter received by the Commission shall immediately be subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery thereof or further act, and the lien of any such pledge shall be valid and binding as against all parties having claims of any kind in tort, contract, or otherwise against the Commission, irrespective of whether such parties have notice thereof. Neither the resolution nor any trust indenture by which a pledge is created need be filed or recorded except in the records of the Commission. The use and disposition of moneys to the credit of such sinking fund shall be subject to the provisions of the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds or of such trust indenture. Except as may otherwise be provided in such resolution or such trust indenture, such sinking fund shall be a fund for all such bonds without distinction or priority of one over another.</p><p>1956, c. 714; 2014, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?141+ful+CHAP0805'>805</a>.</p>