# ยง 15.2-5805 Powers.

<p>In addition to the powers set forth elsewhere in this chapter, the Authority may:</p><p>1. Adopt and alter an official seal;</p><p>2. Sue and be sued in its own name;</p><p>3. Adopt bylaws, rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter;</p><p>4. Maintain an office at such place as the Authority may designate;</p><p>5. Employ, either as regular employees or independent contractors, consultants, engineers, architects, accountants, attorneys, financial experts, construction experts and personnel, superintendents, managers and other professional personnel, personnel, and agents as may be necessary in the judgment of the Authority, and fix their compensation;</p><p>6. Determine the locations of, develop, establish, construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, regulate, and maintain facilities to the extent necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Authority;</p><p>7. Acquire, hold, lease, use, encumber, transfer, or dispose of real and personal property, including a lease of its property or any interest therein whatever the condition thereof, whether or not constructed or acquired, to the Commonwealth or any political subdivision of the Commonwealth. The Commonwealth and any such political subdivision are authorized to acquire or lease such property or any interest therein; however, the Commonwealth shall not enter into any such lease or purchase agreement unless such lease or purchase agreement has first been approved pursuant to subsections E and F of ยง <a href='/vacode/15.2-5806/'>15.2-5806</a>;</p><p>8. Enter into contracts of any kind, and execute all instruments necessary or convenient with respect to its carrying out the powers in this chapter to accomplish the purposes of the Authority;</p><p>9. Operate, enter into contracts for the operation of, and regulate the use and operation of facilities developed under the provisions of the chapter;</p><p>10. Fix and revise from time to time and charge and collect rates, rents, fees, or other charges for the use of facilities or for services rendered in connection with the facilities;</p><p>11. Borrow money from any source for any valid purpose, including working capital for its operations, reserve funds, or interest, and to mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber the property or funds of the Authority and to contract with or engage the services of any person in connection with any financing, including financial institutions, issuers of letters of credit, or insurers;</p><p>12. Issue bonds under this chapter;</p><p>13. Receive and accept from any source, private or public, contributions, gifts, or grants of money or property; and</p><p>14. Do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers granted by this chapter.</p><p>1992, c. 823, ยง 15.1-227.75; 1995, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0613'>613</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0629'>629</a>; 1996, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0950'>950</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP1038'>1038</a>; 1997, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0587'>587</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?971+ful+CHAP0884'>884</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0106'>106</a>.</p>