# ยง 9.1-116.5 Sex Trafficking Response Coordinator; duties; report.

<p>A. There is established within the Department a Sex Trafficking Response Coordinator (the Coordinator). The Coordinator shall:</p><p>1. Create a statewide plan for local and state agencies to identify and respond to victims of sex trafficking;</p><p>2. Coordinate the development of standards and guidelines for treatment programs for victims of sex trafficking;</p><p>3. Maintain a list of programs that provide treatment or specialized services to victims of sex trafficking and make such list available to law-enforcement agencies, attorneys for the Commonwealth, crime victim and witness assistance programs, the Department of Juvenile Justice, the Department of Social Services, the Department of Education, and school divisions;</p><p>4. Oversee the development of a curriculum to be completed by persons convicted of solicitation of prostitution under ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-346.01/'>18.2-346.01</a>; and</p><p>5. Promote strategies for the education, training, and awareness of sex trafficking and for the reduction of demand for commercial sex.</p><p>B. The Coordinator may request and shall receive from every department, division, board, bureau, commission, authority, or other agency created by the Commonwealth, or to which the Commonwealth is a party or any political subdivision thereof, cooperation and assistance in the performance of its duties. The Coordinator may also consult and exchange information with local government agencies and interested stakeholders.</p><p>C. The Coordinator shall report annually on or before October 1 to the Governor and the General Assembly. The report shall include a summary of activities for the year and any recommendations to address sex trafficking within the Commonwealth. The Department shall ensure that such report is available to the public.</p><p>2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0486'>486</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0514'>514</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0188'>188</a>.</p>