# § 19.2-368.3 Powers and duties of Commission.

<p>The Commission shall have the following powers and duties in the administration of the provisions of this chapter:</p><p>1. To adopt, promulgate, amend and rescind suitable rules and regulations to carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter, to include a distinct policy (i) for the payment of physical evidence recovery kit examinations and (ii) to require each health care provider as defined in § <a href='/vacode/8.01-581.1/'>8.01-581.1</a> that provides services under this chapter to negotiate with the Commission or its designee to establish prospective agreements relating to rates for payment of claims for such services allowed under § <a href='/vacode/19.2-368.11:1/'>19.2-368.11:1</a>, such rates to discharge the obligation to the provider in full except where the provider is an agency of the Commonwealth and the claimant receives a third party recovery in addition to the payment from the Fund.</p><p>2. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3706/'>2.2-3706</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-3706.1/'>2.2-3706.1</a>, to acquire from the attorneys for the Commonwealth, State Police, local police departments, sheriffs' departments, and the Chief Medical Examiner such investigative results, information and data as will enable the Commission to determine if, in fact, a crime was committed or attempted, and the extent, if any, to which the victim or claimant was responsible for his own injury. These data shall include prior adult arrest records and juvenile court disposition records of the offender. For such purposes and in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/16.1-305/'>16.1-305</a>, the Commission may also acquire from the juvenile and domestic relations district courts a copy of the order of disposition relating to the crime. The use of any information received by the Commission pursuant to this subdivision shall be limited to carrying out the purposes set forth in this section, and this information shall be confidential and shall not be disseminated further. The agency from which the information is requested may submit original reports, portions thereof, summaries, or such other configurations of information as will comply with the requirements of this section.</p><p>3. To hear and determine all claims for awards filed with the Commission pursuant to this chapter, and to reinvestigate or reopen cases as the Commission deems necessary.</p><p>4. To require and direct medical examination of victims.</p><p>5. To hold hearings, administer oaths or affirmations, examine any person under oath or affirmation and to issue summonses requiring the attendance and giving of testimony of witnesses and require the production of any books, papers, documentary or other evidence. The powers provided in this subsection may be delegated by the Commission to any member or employee thereof.</p><p>6. To take or cause to be taken affidavits or depositions within or without the Commonwealth.</p><p>7. To render each year to the Governor and to the General Assembly a written report of its activities. This report shall include a detailed section on all unclaimed restitution collected and disbursed to the victim from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund pursuant to subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/19.2-305.1/'>19.2-305.1</a>.</p><p>8. To accept from the government of the United States grants of federal moneys for disbursement under the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>9. To collect and disburse unclaimed restitution pursuant to subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/19.2-305.1/'>19.2-305.1</a> and develop, in consultation with circuit court clerks and the Office of the Executive Secretary of the Supreme Court of Virginia, policies and procedures for the receipt, collection, and disbursement of unclaimed restitution to victims of crime.</p><p>10. To identify and locate victims of crime for whom restitution owed to such victims has been deposited into the Criminal Injuries Compensation Fund pursuant to subsection I of § <a href='/vacode/19.2-305.1/'>19.2-305.1</a>. Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ <a href='/vacode/2.2-3706/'>2.2-3706</a> and <a href='/vacode/2.2-3706.1/'>2.2-3706.1</a>, the Commission may acquire from the attorneys for the Commonwealth, State Police, local police departments, and sheriffs' departments such information as will enable the Commission to identify and locate such victims. The use of any information received by the Commission pursuant to this subdivision shall be limited to carrying out the purposes set forth in this section, and this information shall be confidential and shall not be disseminated further.</p><p>1976, c. 605; 1984, c. 619; 1986, c. 422; 1990, c. 551; 1992, c. 547; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0484'>484</a>; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0703'>703</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0726'>726</a>; 2008, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0203'>203</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0251'>251</a>; 2010, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?101+ful+CHAP0780'>780</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0724'>724</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0725'>725</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0483'>483</a>.</p>