# ยง 22.1-206 Instruction concerning drugs, alcohol, substance abuse, tobacco and nicotine products, and gambling.

<p>A. Instruction concerning drugs and drug abuse shall be provided by the public schools as prescribed by the Board of Education.</p><p>B. Instruction concerning the public safety hazards and dangers of alcohol abuse, underage drinking, and drunk driving shall be provided in the public schools. The Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Authority shall provide educational materials to the Department of Education. The Department of Education shall review and shall distribute such materials as are approved to the public schools.</p><p>C. The Virginia Foundation for Healthy Youth shall develop and the Department of Education shall distribute to each local school division educational materials concerning the health and safety risks of using tobacco products, nicotine vapor products, and alternative nicotine products, as such terms are defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-371.2/'>18.2-371.2</a>. Instruction concerning the health and safety risks of using tobacco products, nicotine vapor products, and alternative nicotine products, as such terms are defined in ยง <a href='/vacode/18.2-371.2/'>18.2-371.2</a>, shall be provided in each public elementary and secondary school in the Commonwealth, consistent with such educational materials.</p><p>D. Instruction concerning gambling and the addictive potential thereof shall be provided by the public schools as prescribed by the Board.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 22-235.1; 1972, c. 248; 1980, c. 559; 2001, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0452'>452</a>; 2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0038'>38</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0730'>730</a>; 2019, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0577'>577</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0192'>192</a>.</p>