# ยง 28.2-642 Declaring certain other areas in Hill's Bay, Mathews County, public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals.

<p>The following ground in Hill's Bay, Mathews County, contained within the following boundaries is declared to be public oyster rocks, beds, and shoals and unassignable to any person for private use.</p><p>The point of beginning is located at the low-tide line on the west side of the Gwynn's Island Bridge, said bridge connecting the mainland and Gwynn's Island; thence following the west right-of-way of said Gwynn's Island Bridge to a point on the south side of Public Ground No. 5, Mathews County; thence along the south side of Public Ground No. 5 in a southwest direction to Public Ground corner No. 2; thence in a generally west direction along said Public Ground corner No. 3; thence in a generally northwest direction along said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a generally northwest direction along said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 5; thence in a generally northwest direction on the west side of Public Ground No. 5 to a point; thence in a northwest direction along the south side of C. M. Forrest's 4.10-acre oyster ground lease to a point; thence in a northwesterly direction along the southwest side of J. E. Forrest's 10.17-acre oyster ground lease to a point; thence in an easterly direction along the northern side of J. E. Forrest's 10.17-acre oyster ground lease to a point on the south side of Public Ground No. 5, Mathews County; thence in a northwesterly direction along the south side of Public Ground No. 5 to Public Ground corner No. 6; thence in a generally north direction along the western side of said Public Ground No. 5 to Public Ground corner No. 5; thence in a northerly direction along said Public Ground to Public Ground corner No. 4; thence in a northerly direction along the west side of Public Ground No. 5 to a point; thence following the south edge of Shelton Rowe's, Julian Rowe's and Robert Callis' oyster ground lease of 100 acres in a generally west direction to a point, said point being due north of survey station "Burton," located on Burton's Point to low-tide line; thence following the low-tide line in a generally southeasterly direction to the west side of the mouth of Queen's Creek; thence in a southeasterly direction across the mouth of Queen's Creek to a point; thence along the low-tide line in a generally easterly direction to the point of beginning.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 28-204.1:1; 1958, c. 299; 1962, c. 406, ยง 28.1-152; 1992, c. 836.</p>