# ยง 22.1-299.7:1  (For Effective Date, See 2022 Acts cc. 549, 550, cl. 2) Microcredential program; reading specialists.

<p>A. The Department shall establish a microcredential program for the purpose of permitting any public elementary or secondary school teacher who holds a renewable or provisional license or any individual who participates in any alternate route to licensure program to earn a series of microcredentials in the reading specialist endorsement area. Such microcredential program shall require candidates to complete a performance-based assessment intended to allow the educator to demonstrate competency in evidence-based literacy instruction and science-based reading research as well as the identification of and the appropriate interventions, accommodations, and teaching techniques for students with dyslexia or a related disorder.</p><p>B. The Board shall issue guidance that determines how the series of microcredentials awarded to teachers pursuant to the microcredential program established in accordance with subsection A will be used to award an add-on endorsement as a reading specialist. Any add-on endorsement that results from completion of such microcredential program shall be provisional for a period of five years.</p><p>C. A local school board may employ a teacher with an add-on endorsement as a reading specialist pursuant to this section to satisfy the requirement set forth in subsection G of ยง <a href='/vacode/22.1-253.13:2/'>22.1-253.13:2</a> if the local school board is unable to employ a teacher with a full endorsement as a reading specialist.</p><p>D. Teachers who hold a renewable license and who participate, through the microcredential program established in accordance with subsection A, in courses that do not contribute to an endorsement are eligible for professional development points toward renewal of their license for the number of in-person hours of coursework completed upon providing a certificate of such participation from the course provider. </p><p>2022, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0549'>549</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0550'>550</a>.</p>