# ยง 10.1-603.16 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Authority" means the Virginia Resources Authority created in Chapter 21 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/62.1-197/'>62.1-197</a> et seq.) of Title 62.1.</p><p>"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Virginia Resources Authority.</p><p>"Cost," as applied to any project financed under the provisions of this article, means the total of all costs incurred by the local government or private entity as reasonable and necessary for carrying out all works and undertakings necessary or incident to the accomplishment of any project. It includes, without limitation, all necessary developmental, planning and feasibility studies, surveys, plans and specifications; hydrologic and hydraulic studies and analyses; architectural, engineering, financial, legal or other special services; mapping; the cost of acquisition of flood-prone land and any buildings and improvements thereon, including the discharge of any obligations of the sellers of such land, buildings or improvements; site preparation and development, including demolition or removal of existing structures; construction and reconstruction; labor; materials, machinery and equipment; the reasonable costs of financing incurred by the local government or private entity in the course of the development of the project; carrying charges incurred before placing the project in service; necessary expenses incurred in connection with placing the project in service; the funding of accounts and reserves that the Authority may require; and the cost of other items that the Authority determines to be reasonable and necessary.</p><p>"Dam owner" means the owner of the land on which a dam is situated, the holder of an easement permitting the construction of a dam and any person or entity agreeing to maintain a dam.</p><p>"Department" means the Department of Conservation and Recreation.</p><p>"Director" means the Director of the Department of Conservation and Recreation.</p><p>"Flood prevention or protection" means the construction of dams, levees, flood walls, channel improvements or diversions, local flood proofing, evacuation of flood-prone areas or land use controls which reduce or mitigate damage from flooding.</p><p>"Flood prevention or protection studies" means hydraulic and hydrologic studies of flood plains with historic and predicted floods, the assessment of flood risk and the development of strategies to prevent or mitigate damage from flooding.</p><p>"Fund" or "revolving fund" means the Dam Safety, Flood Prevention and Protection Assistance Fund.</p><p>"Local funds" means cash provided for project or study implementation that is not derived from federal or state grants or loans.</p><p>"Local government" means any county, city, town, municipal corporation, authority, district, commission, or political subdivision created by the General Assembly or pursuant to the Constitution or laws of the Commonwealth, or any combination of any two or more of the foregoing.</p><p>"Private entities" means dam owners, whether individuals, partnerships, corporations, or other nongovernmental entities.</p><p>"Project" means the development and implementation of activities or measures performed to eliminate, prevent, reduce, or mitigate damages caused by flooding or to identify flood hazards; the design, repair, and safety modifications of a dam or impounding structure, as defined in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-604/'>10.1-604</a>, and identified in dam safety reports generated pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-607/'>10.1-607</a> or <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/10.1-609/'>10.1-609</a>; or the mapping and digitization of dam break inundation zones. The term includes, without limitation, the construction, modification or repair of dams, levees, flood walls, channel improvements or diversions; evacuation, relocation, and retrofitting of flood-prone structures; flood warning and response systems; redevelopment, acquisition, and open-space use of flood-prone areas; hydrologic and hydraulic studies of floodplains with historic and predicted floods; remapping of regulated flood hazard areas; the assessment of flood risks; the development of flood hazard mitigation strategies and plans, flood prevention and protection studies, and matching funds for federal funds for these activities. The lands involved with such projects shall be located within the Commonwealth.</p><p>1989, cc. 462, 498; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0510'>510</a>; 2002, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?021+ful+CHAP0320'>320</a>; 2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0648'>648</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0765'>765</a>.</p>