# ยง 54.1-2957.4 Licensure as athletic trainer required; requisite training and educational requirements; powers of the Board concerning athletic training.

<p>A. It shall be unlawful for any person to practice or to hold himself out as practicing as an athletic trainer unless he holds a license as an athletic trainer issued by the Board. The Board shall issue licenses to practice athletic training to applicants for such licensure who meet the requirements of this chapter and the Board's regulations.</p><p>B. The Board shall establish criteria for the licensure of athletic trainers to ensure the appropriate training and educational credentials for the practice of athletic training. Such criteria may include experiential requirements and shall include one of the following: (i) a Virginia testing program to determine the quality of the training and educational credentials for and competence of athletic trainers, (ii) successful completion of a training program and passage of the certifying examination administered by the National Athletic Training Association Board of Certification resulting in certification as an athletic trainer by such national association, or (iii) completion of another Board-approved training program and examination.</p><p>C. At its discretion, the Board may grant provisional licensure to persons who have successfully completed an approved training program or who have met requisite experience criteria established by the Board. Such provisional licensure shall expire as provided for in the regulations of the Board.</p><p>D. The Board shall promulgate such regulations as may be necessary for the licensure of athletic trainers and the issuance of licenses to athletic trainers to practice in the Commonwealth. The Board's regulations shall assure the competence and integrity of any person claiming to be an athletic trainer or who engages in the practice of athletic training.</p><p>1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0639'>639</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0682'>682</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0747'>747</a>; 2004, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?041+ful+CHAP0669'>669</a>; 2013, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0144'>144</a>.</p>