# ยง 16.1-278.7:02 Department to give notice of Sex Offender and Crimes Against Minors Registry requirements to certain persons.

<p>A. Prior to the release or discharge of any persons for whom registration with the Sex Offender and Crimes Against Minors Registry is required pursuant to Chapter 9 (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/9.1-900/'>9.1-900</a> et seq.) of Title 9.1, the Department shall give notice to the persons of his duty to register with the State Police. A person required to register shall register, submit to be photographed as part of the registration, and provide information regarding place of employment, if available, to the Department. The Department shall also obtain from that person all necessary registration information, including fingerprints and photographs of a type and kind approved by the Department of State Police; inform the person of his duties regarding reregistration and change of address; and inform the person of his duty to register. The Department of Juvenile Justice shall forward the registration information to the Department of State Police on the date of the person's release or discharge.</p><p>B. Whenever a person required to register has failed to comply with the provisions of subsection A, the Department shall promptly investigate or request the State Police promptly investigate and, if there is probable cause to believe a violation has occurred, obtain a warrant or assist in obtaining an indictment charging a violation of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/18.2-472.1/'>18.2-472.1</a> in the jurisdiction in which the person was discharged. The Department shall notify the State Police forthwith of such actions taken pursuant to this section.</p><p>2006, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0857'>857</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0914'>914</a>.</p>