# ยง 33.2-1526.5 Commonwealth Port Fund.

<p>A. There is hereby created in the Department of the Treasury a special nonreverting fund that shall be a part of the Transportation Trust Fund and shall be known as the Commonwealth Port Fund (the Fund).</p><p>B. The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller and the funds remaining in such Fund at the end of a biennium shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Interest earned on such funds shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Funds may be paid to any authority, locality, or commission for the purposes hereinafter specified.</p><p>C. The amounts allocated pursuant to this section shall be allocated by the Board to the Board of Commissioners of the Virginia Port Authority to be used to support port capital needs and the preservation of existing capital needs of all ocean, river, or tributary ports within the Commonwealth. Expenditures for such capital needs are restricted to those capital projects specified in subsection B of ยง <a href='/vacode/62.1-132.1/'>62.1-132.1</a>.</p><p>D. Fund revenue shall be allocated by the Board of Commissioners to the Virginia Port Authority in order to foster and stimulate the flow of maritime commerce through the ports of Virginia, including but not limited to the ports of Richmond, Hopewell, and Alexandria.</p><p>2020, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1230'>1230</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1275'>1275</a>.</p>