# ยง 3.2-4112 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Cannabis sativa product" means a product made from any part of the plant Cannabis sativa with a concentration of tetrahydrocannabinol that is greater than that allowed by federal law.</p><p>"Deal" means to temporarily possess industrial hemp grown in compliance with state or federal law that (i) has not been processed and (ii) was not grown and will not be processed by the person temporarily possessing it.</p><p>"Dealer" means any person who is registered pursuant to subsection A of ยง <a href='/vacode/3.2-4115/'>3.2-4115</a> to deal in industrial hemp. "Dealer" does not include a retail establishment that sells or offers for sale a hemp product.</p><p>"Dealership" means the location at which a dealer stores or intends to store the industrial hemp in which he deals.</p><p>"Federally licensed hemp producer" means a person who holds a hemp producer license issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture pursuant to 7 C.F.R. Part 990.</p><p>"Grow" means to plant, cultivate, or harvest a plant or crop.</p><p>"Grower" means any person registered pursuant to subsection A of ยง <a href='/vacode/3.2-4115/'>3.2-4115</a> to grow industrial hemp.</p><p>"Hemp product" means a product, including any raw materials from industrial hemp that are used for or added to a food or beverage product, that contains industrial hemp and has completed all stages of processing needed for the product.</p><p>"Industrial hemp" means any part of the plant Cannabis sativa, including seeds thereof, whether growing or not, with a concentration of tetrahydrocannabinol that is no greater than that allowed by federal law. "Industrial hemp" includes an industrial hemp extract that has not completed all stages of processing needed to convert the extract into a hemp product.</p><p>"Process" means to convert industrial hemp into a hemp product.</p><p>"Processor" means a person registered pursuant to subsection A of ยง <a href='/vacode/3.2-4115/'>3.2-4115</a> to process industrial hemp.</p><p>"Process site" means the location at which a processor processes or intends to process industrial hemp.</p><p>"Production field" means the land or area on which a grower or a federally licensed hemp producer is growing or intends to grow industrial hemp.</p><p>2015, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0158'>158</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0180'>180</a>; 2018, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0689'>689</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?181+ful+CHAP0690'>690</a>; 2019, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0653'>653</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?191+ful+CHAP0654'>654</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0110'>110</a>.</p>