# § 3.2-6587 Unlawful acts; penalties.

<p>A. The following shall be unlawful acts and are Class 4 misdemeanors:</p><p>1. For any person to make a false statement in order to secure a dog or cat license to which he is not entitled.</p><p>2. For any dog or cat owner to fail to pay any license tax required by this chapter before February 1 for the year in which it is due. In addition, the court may order confiscation and the proper disposition of the dog or cat.</p><p>3. For any dog owner to allow a dog to run at large in violation of an ordinance passed pursuant to § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6539/'>3.2-6539</a>.</p><p>4. Unless otherwise punishable under subsection B, for any person to fail to obey an ordinance passed pursuant to §§ <a href='/vacode/3.2-6522/'>3.2-6522</a> and <a href='/vacode/3.2-6525/'>3.2-6525</a>.</p><p>5. For any owner to fail to dispose of the body of his companion animals in accordance with § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6554/'>3.2-6554</a>.</p><p>6. For the owner of any dog or cat with a contagious or infectious disease, other than rabies, to permit such dog or cat to stray from his premises if such disease is known to the owner.</p><p>7. For any person to conceal or harbor any dog or cat on which any required license tax has not been paid.</p><p>8. For any person, except the owner or custodian, to remove a legally acquired license tag from a dog or cat without the permission of the owner or custodian.</p><p>9. Any other violation of this chapter for which a specific penalty is not provided.</p><p>B. It is a Class 1 misdemeanor for any person to:</p><p>1. Present a false claim or to receive any money on a false claim under the provisions of § <a href='/vacode/3.2-6553/'>3.2-6553</a>.</p><p>2. Impersonate a humane investigator.</p><p>3. Permit a dog or cat that he owns or is in his custody to stray from his premises when he knows or has been told by the local health department, law-enforcement agency, animal control agency, or any other person who has a duty to control or respond to a risk of rabies exposure that the dog or cat is suspected of having rabies.</p><p>1984, c. 492, § 29-213.99; 1987, c. 488, § 3.1-796.128; 1993, cc. 174, 775, 817; 1998, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0817'>817</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>; 2020, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?201+ful+CHAP1183'>1183</a>.</p>