# ยง 45.2-820  Emergency response plans; list of next of kin.

<p>A. Each operator shall develop an emergency response plan for each mine. The plan shall include (i) a mine emergency communication plan, (ii) an evacuation procedure, (iii) the identification of waterlines, (iv) the number system of brattice, (v) the location of each escapeway, and (vi) such other information as the Chief reasonably requires.</p><p>B. The emergency response plan shall be subject to approval by the Chief or mine inspector. The Chief may require periodic updates to an operator's emergency response plan. Such operator shall comply with the requirements of the approved plan.</p><p>C. The emergency response plan shall be posted in a conspicuous manner and location readily accessible to all miners, both underground and at the surface of the mine.</p><p>D. The operator shall train miners in the implementation of the emergency response plan and shall conduct practice drills. Records of dates and times of practice drills shall be maintained in the emergency response plan.</p><p>E. Each miner employed by the operator who goes underground, and each visitor authorized by the operator to enter the mine, shall have available an adequate supply of self-rescue devices, each of which provides at least one hour of protection and is approved by MSHA. The training related to self-rescue devices shall be included in the emergency response plan approved by the Chief.</p><p>F. The operator shall maintain a list of the next of kin of all miners employed at the mine. The list shall be kept at the mine site or at a central facility readily accessible to the mine.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 45-14.1; 1954, c. 191; 1966, c. 594, ยง 45.1-89; 1974, c. 323; 1978, c. 118; 1984, c. 590; 1985, c. 500; 1994, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?941+ful+CHAP0028'>28</a>, ยง 45.1-161.202; 1996, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?961+ful+CHAP0774'>774</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0291'>291</a>; 2021, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?212+ful+CHAP0387'>387</a>.</p>