# ยง 54.1-2112 Definitions.

<p>As used in this article, unless the context requires a different meaning:</p><p>"Act" means the Virginia Real Estate Transaction Recovery Act.</p><p>"Balance of the fund" means cash, securities that are legal investments for fiduciaries under the provisions of subdivisions A 1, 2, and 4 of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4519/'>2.2-4519</a>, and repurchase agreements secured by obligations of the United States government or any agency thereof, and shall not mean accounts receivable, judgments, notes, accrued interest, or other obligations payable to the fund.</p><p>"Board" means the Real Estate Board.</p><p>"Claimant" means any person with an unsatisfied judgment against a regulant, who has filed a verified claim under this act.</p><p>"Director" means the Director of the Department of Professional and Occupational Regulation.</p><p>"Fund" means the Virginia Real Estate Transaction Recovery Fund.</p><p>"Improper or dishonest conduct" includes only the wrongful and fraudulent taking or conversion of money, property or other things of value or material misrepresentation or deceit.</p><p>"Judgment" includes an order of a United States Bankruptcy Court (i) declaring a claim against a regulant who is in bankruptcy to be a "Debt Nondischargeable in Bankruptcy," (ii) extinguishing a claim against a regulant who is in bankruptcy and for which claim no distribution was made from the regulant's bankruptcy estate but excluding any such claim disallowed by order of the bankruptcy court, or (iii) extinguishing a claim against a regulant who is in bankruptcy and for which claim only partial distribution was made from the regulant's bankruptcy estate. An order of dismissal shall not be considered a judgment.</p><p>"Regulant" means a person, partnership, association, corporation, agency, firm or any other entity licensed by the Real Estate Board as a real estate broker or real estate salesperson.</p><p>"Verified claim" means a completed application, on a form designed by the Board, the truthfulness of which has been attested to by the claimant before a notary public, along with all required supporting documentation, that has been properly received by the Department in accordance with this chapter.</p><p>1977, c. 69, ยง 54-765.2; 1984, cc. 266, 283; 1985, c. 448; 1987, c. 555; 1988, c. 765; 1992, c. 348; 1993, c. 499; 2015, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?151+ful+CHAP0409'>409</a>.</p>