# § 2.2-4363 Contractual disputes.

<p>A. Contractual claims, whether for money or other relief, shall be submitted in writing no later than 60 days after final payment. However, written notice of the contractor's intention to file a claim shall be given at the time of the occurrence or beginning of the work upon which the claim is based. Nothing herein shall preclude a contract from requiring submission of an invoice for final payment within a certain time after completion and acceptance of the work or acceptance of the goods. Pendency of claims shall not delay payment of amounts agreed due in the final payment.</p><p>B. Each public body shall include in its contracts a procedure for consideration of contractual claims. Such procedure, which may be contained in the contract or may be specifically incorporated into the contract by reference and made available to the contractor, shall establish a time limit for a final decision in writing by the public body. If the public body has established administrative procedures meeting the standards of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4365/'>2.2-4365</a>, such procedures shall be contained in the contract or specifically incorporated in the contract by reference and made available to the contractor.</p><p>C. If, however, the public body fails to include in its contracts a procedure for consideration of contractual claims, the following procedure shall apply:</p><p>1. Contractual claims, whether for money or other relief, shall be submitted in writing no later than 60 days after receipt of final payment; however, written notice of the contractor's intention to file a claim shall be given at the time of the occurrence or at the beginning of the work upon which the claim is based.</p><p>2. No written decision denying a claim or addressing issues related to the claim shall be considered a denial of the claim unless the written decision is signed by the public body's chief administrative officer or his designee. The contractor may not institute legal action prior to receipt of the final written decision on the claim unless the public body fails to render a decision within 90 days of submission of the claim. Failure of the public body to render a decision within 90 days shall not result in the contractor being awarded the relief claimed or in any other relief or penalty. The sole remedy for the public body's failure to render a decision within 90 days shall be the contractor's right to institute immediate legal action.</p><p>D. A contractor may not invoke administrative procedures meeting the standards of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4365/'>2.2-4365</a>, if available, or institute legal action as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4364/'>2.2-4364</a>, prior to receipt of the public body's decision on the claim, unless the public body fails to render such decision within the time specified in the contract or, if no time is specified, then within the time provided by subsection C. A failure of the public body to render a final decision within the time provided in subsection C shall be deemed a final decision denying the claim by the public body.</p><p>E. The decision of the public body shall be final and conclusive unless the contractor appeals within six months of the date of the final decision on the claim by the public body by invoking administrative procedures meeting the standards of § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4365/'>2.2-4365</a>, if available, or in the alternative by instituting legal action as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4364/'>2.2-4364</a>.</p><p>1982, c. 647, § 11-69; 2001, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0106'>106</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?011+ful+CHAP0844'>844</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0815'>815</a>.</p>