# § 38.2-5200 Definitions.

<p>As used in this chapter:</p><p>"Applicant" means in the case of an individual long-term care insurance policy, the person who seeks to contract for such benefits, or in the case of a group long-term care insurance policy, the proposed certificateholder.</p><p>"Certificate" means any certificate or evidence of coverage issued under a group long-term care insurance policy, which policy has been delivered or issued for delivery in this Commonwealth.</p><p>"Group long-term care insurance" means a long-term care insurance policy delivered or issued for delivery in this Commonwealth to any group which complies with § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/38.2-3521.1/'>38.2-3521.1</a>.</p><p>"Long-term care insurance" means any insurance policy or rider advertised, marketed, offered or designed to provide coverage for not less than twelve consecutive months for each covered person on an expense incurred, indemnity, prepaid, or other basis, for one or more necessary or medically necessary diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, rehabilitative, maintenance, personal care, mental health or substance abuse services, provided in a setting other than an acute care unit of a hospital. Such term includes group and individual annuities and life insurance policies or riders that provide directly or that supplement long-term care insurance. Such term shall also include qualified long-term insurance contracts. Long-term care insurance may be issued by insurers, fraternal benefit societies, health services plans, health maintenance organizations, cooperative nonprofit life benefit companies or mutual assessment life, accident and sickness insurers to the extent they are otherwise authorized to issue life or accident and sickness insurance. Health maintenance organizations, cooperative nonprofit life benefit companies and mutual assessment life, accident and sickness insurers may apply to the Commission for approval to provide long-term care insurance.</p><p>"Policy" means any individual or group policy of insurance, contract, subscriber agreement, certificate, rider or endorsement delivered or issued for delivery in this Commonwealth by an insurer, fraternal benefit society, health services plan, health maintenance organization or any similar organization.</p><p>"Qualified long-term care insurance policy" or "federally tax-qualified long-term care insurance contract" means an individual or group insurance policy or contract that meets the requirements of § 7702B (b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Such term shall also include the portion of a life insurance policy or contract that provides long-term care insurance coverage by rider or as part of the contract and that satisfies the requirements of §§ 7702B (b) and 7702B (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.</p><p>1987, c. 586; 1990, c. 285; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0559'>559</a>.</p>