# ยง 29.1-327 Agents for sale of licenses and permits; sales by telephone and electronic media.

<p>A. The Board shall have authority to appoint agents operating in and outside of Virginia for the issuance and sale of any or all of the permits and licenses provided for in this title. Those agents appointed shall be in addition to the clerks of the courts designated by ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-323/'>29.1-323</a> and shall be chosen so as to best serve the public from the standpoint of geographic location and method of operation. Such agents operating in and outside of Virginia shall be subject to the laws and the rules and regulations of the Board covering the issuance and sale of licenses and permits. Rules and regulations promulgated by the Board shall be designed to ensure that agents provide adequate service to the public and shall include provisions for removing agents not performing their duties properly. Any contract between the Department and any agent operating outside of Virginia shall stipulate that application and construction of the contract is governed by the laws of Virginia. Before an agent's appointment becomes effective, the agent shall be bonded by a surety company entitled to do business in this Commonwealth in the penalty of such amount as the Board may require, payable to the Commonwealth and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the agent's duties.</p><p>At such intervals as the Board may decide to be proper, the Board shall informally investigate the performance of agents appointed pursuant to this section to determine whether such agents are performing their duties in the public interest as provided by law and shall take any action deemed necessary to provide the best service in the public interest.</p><p>B. The Board may make and enter into agency contracts whereby the agent, whether operating in or outside of Virginia, may sell hunting and fishing licenses, issued under this title, by telephone, the Internet, or other electronic or computerized means. The contract shall establish the cost the agent may charge and receive per transaction which shall be in addition to the actual cost of the license sold during the transaction. A telephone or electronic media agent shall receive as compensation the fees for which he contracted with the Board and as determined and provided for in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/29.1-332/'>29.1-332</a>. A telephone or electronic media agent shall follow the provisions of the contract.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 29-65; 1950, p. 149; 1964, c. 562; 1966, c. 286; 1968, c. 522; 1970, c. 82; 1972, c. 133; 1973, c. 184; 1974, cc. 105, 107; 1975, cc. 153, 402; 1976, cc. 38, 171; 1977, c. 377; 1987, c. 488; 1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0255'>255</a>; 2000, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?001+ful+CHAP0132'>132</a>.</p>