# ยง 22.1-175.7 Virginia Public School Educational Technology Trust Fund created.

<p>A. From such funds as may be appropriated for this purpose and from such gifts, donations, grants, bequests, and other funds as may be received on its behalf, there is hereby created in the Department of the Treasury a special nonreverting fund known as the Virginia Public School Educational Technology Trust Fund, hereinafter referred to as "the Fund." The Fund shall be established on the books of the Comptroller, and any moneys remaining in such Fund at the end of the biennium shall not revert to the general fund but shall remain in the Fund. Interest earned on such funds shall remain in the Fund and be credited to it. Funds may be disbursed to any school division that is eligible for financial assistance pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.</p><p>B. The State Treasurer shall manage the Virginia Public School Educational Technology Trust Fund, subject to the authority of the Board of Education to provide for its disbursement. The Fund shall be disbursed to award grants as provided in ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-175.6/'>22.1-175.6</a>.</p><p>C. The amount of such educational technology grants shall be matched by funds of the qualifying school division based on the locality's composite index of ability to pay. In awarding such grants, the Board shall take into consideration any other state or federal grants which may have been applied for or awarded for the same projects. In addition, the Board shall assist local school divisions in applying for such grants and shall seek to ensure that all divisions have equitable access, based on superintendent's regions, to such funds as may be available.</p><p>1999, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP0870'>870</a>.</p>