# ยง 23.1-1103 Institutions; powers generally.

<p>Any institution may, in its proper corporate name and style:</p><p>1. Sue and be sued (i) on any bond, agreement, or other contractual or quasi-contractual obligation issued, made, or incurred pursuant to this chapter; (ii) on any duty, debt, evidence of debt, term, provision, condition, or covenant relating to any bond, agreement, or other contractual or quasi-contractual obligation issued, made, or incurred pursuant to this chapter; (iii) for the enforcement of any bond, agreement, or other contractual or quasi-contractual obligations issued, made, or incurred pursuant to this chapter; or (iv) for the enforcement of any contract or agreement with or liability to any federal agency or bondholder or any trustee or representative of such bondholder.</p><p>2. Adopt and alter a common seal.</p><p>3. Acquire and hold real or personal property or interests in such property in its own name.</p><p>4. Execute any instrument that it deems necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of this chapter.</p><p>5. With the consent of the Governor, issue bonds and provide for and secure the rights of the bondholders.</p><p>6. Perform any act authorized by this chapter through its own officers, agents, or employees, or by contracts with private corporations, firms, or individuals.</p><p>7. Perform any act that it deems necessary or convenient to carry out the powers and purposes expressly provided in this chapter.</p><p>1933, p. 84, ยง 23-16; 2016, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?161+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>.</p>