# § 53.1-95 Provisions applicable to jail farms of counties and cities.

<p>A. When the control, management and supervision of the jail farm of any county or city is not vested in the sheriff of such county or city, such county or city shall be paid out of state funds pursuant to § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/53.1-85/'>53.1-85</a> for the care and custody at such jail farm of persons accused or convicted of any offense against the laws of the Commonwealth, and witnesses held in cases to which the Commonwealth is a party. Such payments shall include only the reasonable cost of guarding, and providing necessary housing, maintenance, administrative expenses, food, clothing, medicine and medical attention for such prisoners.</p><p>A1. Such county or city may also collect from other counties, cities or towns of the Commonwealth for which any prisoner is held at the jail farm of such county or city the reasonable cost of feeding, clothing, caring for and furnishing medicine and medical attention for such prisoner, and maintenance and administrative costs of the facility on a per prisoner basis. As used in this section, the term "reasonable cost" means an amount not to exceed actual costs, including depreciation, less such amounts as may be paid by the Commonwealth pursuant to §§ <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/15.2-1609.8/'>15.2-1609.8</a> and <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/53.1-85/'>53.1-85</a>.</p><p>B. When the control, management and supervision of the jail farm of any county or city is not vested in the sheriff of such county or city, the county or city may collect from the United States, for prisoners of the United States at the jail farm, such amounts as may be agreed upon by the county or city and the appropriate authorities of the Government of the United States, which amounts shall not be less than the actual cost of feeding, clothing and caring for such prisoners. Such county or city may collect from any state, other than this Commonwealth, and from any country other than the United States, for which any prisoner is held at the jail farm of such county or city, the cost of guarding, and providing necessary food, clothing, medicine and medical attention for prisoners held for such other state or country. The amount thereof shall be agreed upon by the governmental units involved.</p><p>Code 1950, § 53-188; 1960, c. 411; 1982, c. 636; 1983, c. 358.</p>