# § 46.2-623 Statements in application.

<p>A. Every application for a certificate of title shall contain (i) a statement of the applicant's title and of all liens or encumbrances on the vehicle and the names and addresses of all persons having any interest in the vehicle and the nature of every interest in the vehicle; (ii) the Social Security number, if any, of the owner and, if the application is in the name of an employer for a business vehicle, the employer's identification number assigned by the United States Internal Revenue Service; and (iii) a brief description of the vehicle to be titled or registered, including the name of the maker, the vehicle identification or serial number and, when titling or registering a new vehicle, the date of sale by the manufacturer or dealer to the person first operating the vehicle.</p><p>B. The lessor of a qualifying vehicle, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-3523/'>58.1-3523</a>, shall send a report to the Department for each such qualifying vehicle containing (i) the name and address of the lessee as it appears in the lease contract; (ii) the social security number of the lessee; and (iii) the registration number of the vehicle as described under Article 1 (§ <a href='/vacode/46.2-600/'>46.2-600</a> et seq.) of Chapter 6.</p><p>C. Such lessor shall send a monthly report to the Department, by the fifteenth day of the month or such later day as may be prescribed in the guidelines promulgated under § 58.1-3532, listing any changes, additions or deletions to the information provided under subsection B as of the last day of the preceding month.</p><p>D. The application for title or registration shall contain such additional information as may be required by the Department.</p><p>E. The Department may require that an applicant present proof reasonably acceptable to the Department of the accuracy of information provided on the application, including proof of identity, and may refuse to issue a certificate of title until such proof has been provided.</p><p>F. The application for registration shall include any additional information required to determine if the vehicle is a qualifying vehicle, as defined in § <a href='/vacode/58.1-3523/'>58.1-3523</a>. Any vehicle held in a trust shall be evaluated in the same manner as a vehicle owned by a natural person.</p><p>Code 1950, § 46-50; 1958, c. 541, § 46.1-52; 1972, c. 230; 1989, c. 727; 1998, Sp. Sess. I, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?981+ful+CHAP0002'>2</a>; 2005, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?051+ful+CHAP0305'>305</a>; 2006, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?061+ful+CHAP0896'>896</a>; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0171'>171</a>; 2012, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?121+ful+CHAP0650'>650</a>; 2022, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?221+ful+CHAP0237'>237</a>.</p>