# ยง 3.2-703 Authority to quarantine.

<p>The Board may quarantine the Commonwealth or any portion thereof when it determines that such action is necessary to prevent or retard the spread of a pest into, within, or from the Commonwealth. Before a quarantine is adopted, the Board shall, after due public notice, hold a public hearing in accordance with the Administrative Process Act (ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4000/'>2.2-4000</a> et seq.), at which hearing any interested party may appear and be heard either in person or by attorney. Notwithstanding the provisions of ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/2.2-4002/'>2.2-4002</a> or any other law to the contrary, the Commissioner may impose a temporary quarantine for a period not to exceed 90 days. A public hearing, as provided herein, shall be held if it appears that a quarantine for more than the 90-day period will be necessary to prevent or retard the spread of the pest. The Commissioner shall give notice of the establishment of the quarantine in a newspaper having general circulation in the area affected by the quarantine. The Commissioner may limit the application of the temporary or permanent quarantine to the infested area and appropriate environs, to be known as the regulated areas, and may without further hearing extend or reduce the regulated area upon publication of a notice to that effect in a newspaper having general circulation in the area affected by the quarantine or by direct written notice to those concerned. Any temporary quarantine imposed by the Commissioner or any extensions or reductions in the regulated areas pursuant to this section shall be reviewed by the Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting, such review by the Board shall be made within 90 days of the Commissioner's action.</p><p>Following establishment of a quarantine, no person shall move any regulated article described in the quarantine or move the pest against which the quarantine is established, within, from, into, or through the Commonwealth contrary to regulations.</p><p>The regulations may restrict the movement of the pest and any regulated articles from the regulated area in the Commonwealth into or through other parts of the Commonwealth or other states and from the regulated area in other states into or through the Commonwealth and shall impose such inspection, disinfection, certification, or permit and other requirements as the Commissioner deems necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article. The Commissioner may issue administrative instructions relating to the enforcement of regulations including acceptable certification procedures, regulated articles, and exemptions.</p><p>1975, c. 29, ยง 3.1-188.23; 1980, c. 291; 2008, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?081+ful+CHAP0860'>860</a>.</p>