# § 22.1-76 Chairman; clerk; vice-chairman; deputy clerk; terms; compensation and bonds of clerk and deputy clerk; officers ineligible to serve as clerk and deputy clerk; approval of division superintendent's designee.

<p>A. Except as provided in § <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-57.3:3/'>22.1-57.3:3</a>, at its annual meeting each school board shall elect one of its members as chairman, shall approve a designee of the division superintendent to attend meetings of the school board in the absence or inability to attend of the superintendent and on recommendation of the division superintendent shall appoint a clerk of the school board. The school board may also elect one of its members as vice-chairman and may appoint a deputy clerk who shall be empowered to act in all matters in case of the absence or inability to act of the chairman or clerk, respectively, or as otherwise provided by resolution of the school board. The term of the chairman, clerk and any vice-chairman and deputy clerk shall be one year.</p><p>B. The school board shall fix the compensation of the clerk and any deputy clerk.</p><p>C. The school board shall require the clerk and any deputy clerk each to furnish a corporate surety bond conditioned upon the faithful performance and discharge of his duties as such. The school board shall fix the amount of each bond which shall not be less than $10,000. The premium for each bond shall be paid by the school board.</p><p>D. No mayor, member of the governing body, other officer or deputy officer of a city, town or county, other than the division superintendent, shall be eligible for appointment as clerk or deputy clerk of a school board in such city, town or county.</p><p>Code 1950, §§ 22-48, 22-48.1, 22-48.2, 22-71, 22-98; 1952, cc. 280, 593; 1954, c. 638; 1980, c. 559; 1995, c. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?951+ful+CHAP0842'>842</a>.</p>