# ยง 22.1-293 School boards authorized to employ principals and assistant principals; license required; powers and duties.

<p>A. A school board, upon recommendation of the division superintendent, may employ principals and assistant principals. Persons employed in these positions shall hold licenses as prescribed by the Board of Education.</p><p>B. A principal shall provide instructional leadership in, shall be responsible for the administration of, and shall supervise the operation and management of the school or schools and property to which he has been assigned, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the school board and under the supervision of the division superintendent.</p><p>C. A principal may submit recommendations to the division superintendent for the appointment, assignment, promotion, transfer, and dismissal of all personnel assigned to his supervision. Principals must have received training, provided pursuant to ยง <a href='http://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/22.1-253.13:5/'>22.1-253.13:5</a>, in the evaluation and documentation of employee performance, which evaluation and documentation shall include, but shall not be limited to, employee skills and knowledge and student academic progress, prior to submitting such recommendations. Assistant principals and other supervisory personnel participating in the evaluation and documentation of employee performance must also have received such training in the evaluation and documentation of employee performance.</p><p>D. A principal shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the division superintendent pursuant to the rules and regulations of the school board.</p><p>Code 1950, ยง 22-217.9; 1973, c. 223; 1980, c. 559; 1992, c. 132; 1999, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP1030'>1030</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?991+ful+CHAP1037'>1037</a>; 2013, cc. <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0588'>588</a>, <a href='http://lis.virginia.gov/cgi-bin/legp604.exe?131+ful+CHAP0650'>650</a>.</p>